<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Crystal Structure Determination</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_81" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 81, Appendix</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="appendix">
<h1 class="chaptitle">Appendix</h1>
<section id="app1" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2" style="margin-top:4em;"><b>Answers to problems</b></h2>
<section id="pro1.1" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Problem 1.1</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Using the method of <a href="Chapter01.xhtml#sec1.5">section 1.5</a>, the unit cell mass is the product of density and cell volume; multiplying by Avogadro&#x2019;s number gives a unit cell mass of 1448.6 daltons. The formula mass is 682.8, and the ratio of these two numbers is 2.12. Thus, there are two molecules of complex per unit cell.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-7em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">Unit cell mass <br/>= 2.16 x 1113.5 x(10<sup>-8</sup>)<sup>3</sup> x 6.023 x 10<sup>23</sup> = 1448.6 daltons <i>Z</i> = 1448.6/682.8 = 2.12</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The true formula mass is thus half the unit cell mass, 724.3 daltons. This is greater than the molecular mass of the complex itself by 41.5 daltons. The molecular mass of acetonitrile is 41.1, so there is one molecule of solvent per molecule of complex, or two molecules of solvent per unit cell.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-7em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">True formula mass = 1448.6/2 = 724.3 724.3 &#x2013; 682.8 = 41.5</p>
</aside>
</section> 
<section id="pro1.2" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Problem 1.2</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">The unit cell volume, calculated as for the monoclinic example in <a href="Chapter01.xhtml#sec1.5">section 1.5</a>, is 4276.4 &#x00C5;<sup>3</sup>. The unit cell mass (product of density and cell volume) is 3605.9 daltons. The ratio of this and the formula mass of 542.4 is 6.65. This is a long way from any of the expected values. The correct value cannot be greater than 6.65, as this would correspond to a negative discrepancy! Presumably the correct answer is 4, and the large discrepancy means a high proportion of thf molecules. Obviously there are equal numbers of cations and anions in the unit cell for charge balance: four of each.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-12.1em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside"><i>V</i> = <i>abc</i> sin<i>&#x03B2;</i> = 4276.4 &#x00C5;<sup>3</sup> <br/>Unit cell mass <br/>= 1.40 x 4276.4 x (10<sup>-8</sup>)<sup>3</sup> x 6.023 x 10<sup>23</sup> = 3605.9 daltons <i>Z</i> = 3605.9/542.4 = 6.65</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The true total formula mass is thus one-quarter of the cell mass, 901.5 daltons. This is 359.1 daltons greater than the formula mass originally assumed, giving five molecules of thf (molecular mass 72.1) per cation-anion pair.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-5.8em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">True formula mass = 3605.9/4 = 901.5 901.5 &#x2013; 542.4 = 359.1 359.1/72.1 = 4.98</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">In fact, in the fully determined structure, the five thf molecules are all coordinated to the potassium cation (which also interacts significantly with one of the thiocyanate ligands of an adjacent anion, to give six-coordination).</p>
</section> 
<section id="pro3.1" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Problem 3.1</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">With just two symmetry-equivalent positions in the unit cell, the corresponding Patterson peaks will be the differences between them: (position 1) &#x2013; (position 2), and (position 2) &#x2013; (position 1). For the positions as given, these differences are (2<i>x</i>, 2<i>y</i> 2<i>z</i>) and (&#x2013;2<i>x</i>, &#x2013;2<i>y</i>, &#x2013;2<i>z</i>), exactly as shown in case study 1.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-7em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">(<i>x</i>, <i>y</i>, <i>z</i>) &#x2013; (-<i>x</i>, <i>-y</i>, -<i>z</i>) = (2<i>x</i>, 2<i>y</i>, 2<i>z</i>)<br/>(-<i>x</i>, <i>-y</i>, -<i>z</i>) &#x2013; (<i>x</i>, <i>y</i>, <i>z</i>) = (-2<i>x</i>, -2<i>y</i>, -2<i>z</i>)</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The largest peak in the Patterson map, apart from the origin, is peak 2 in <a href="Chapter03.xhtml#tab3.5">Table 3.5</a>. If this is assumed to be the (2<i>x</i>, 2<i>y</i>, 2<i>z</i>) vector between two symmetry-related mercury atoms in the unit cell, then the mercury atom coordinates are obtained simply by dividing by 2: <i>x</i> = 0.179, <i>y</i> = 0.187, <i>z</i> = 0.270.</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-7em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">2x = 0.358, 2y = 0.374, 2z = 0.540</p>
</aside>
<a id="page_82" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 82, Appendix</a>
<p class="indent">After mercury, the largest atoms (most electrons) are bromine, so the next largest Patterson peaks should correspond to vectors between mercury and bromine atoms. Peaks 3 to 6 are all of similar height. Two of them (3 and 4) have vector lengths appropriate for Hg&#x2014;Br bonds and so are intramolecular vectors corresponding to the two bonds within a molecule. The other two have much longer vector lengths, and so are intermolecular vectors from mercury in one molecule to the bromine atoms in the other molecule.</p>
<p class="indent">This problem is very similar to case study 1.</p>
</section> 
<section id="pro3.2" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Problem 3.2</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">A table of vectors can be constructed just like that for case study 2. In fact, it will be the same as <a href="Chapter03.xhtml#tab3.2">Table 3.2</a>, except that all entries &#x00BD; + <i>x</i> are replaced by <i>x</i>, &#x00BD; &#x2013; <i>x</i> is replaced by &#x2013;<i>x</i>, and &#x00BD; is replaced by 0 where it occurs as the first of the three coordinates in each case. Thus, for example, the four entries in the first column of the table should be (0, 0, 0), (2<i>x</i>, 2<i>y</i>, 2<i>z</i>), (2<i>x</i>, &#x00BD;, &#x00BD; + 2<i>z</i>) and (0, &#x00BD; + 2<i>y</i> + &#x00BD;).</p>
<aside class="right" style="margin-top:-3em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">2<i>x</i> = &#x2013;0.120 (peaks 3 and 4)<br/>2<i>y</i> = 0.388 (peak 4)<br/>&#x00BD; + 2<i>y</i> = 0.888 (peak 2)<br/>2<i>z</i> = 0.320 (peak 4)<br/>&#x00BD; + 2<i>z</i> = 0.820 (peak 3)</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The first of these entries is the origin peak (number 1 in <a href="Chapter03.xhtml#tab3.6">Table 3.6</a>). The second is peak 4, the third is peak 3, and the fourth is peak 2. Solving the very simple equations for the coordinates in each case, and checking that they are all consistent with each other, <i>x</i> = &#x2013;0.060, <i>y</i> = 0.194, and <i>z</i> = 0.160. Note that there are other possible solutions, all of which are equally valid, obtained by using different columns or rows of the full 4 x 4 vector table. They differ from the solution given here by various combinations of adding the above coordinates to, or subtracting them from, any integer or half-integer (for example, <i>y</i> could equally well be given as &#x2013;0.194, 0.694, or 0.306, among other values). These different, but equivalent, solutions simply correspond to different possible choices of origin for the unit cell.</p>
</section> 
<section id="pro4.1" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Problem 4.1</b></h3>
<p class="hangam42">(a)<span class="space">&#160;</span>Neutrons, unlike X-rays, can distinguish between the isotopes H and D, and so provide information on the positions of deuteriation.</p>
<p class="hangam42">(b)<span class="space">&#160;</span>Neutrons provide more precise positions for the carbon and oxygen atoms, which are relatively poorly determined with X-rays in the presence of the very heavy (electron-rich) osmium atoms.</p>
<p class="hangam42">(c)<span class="space">&#160;</span>There is no particular need for neutron diffraction in this case; X-ray diffraction is perfectly adequate, much less expensive, and more accessible.</p>
<p class="hangam42">(d)<span class="space">&#160;</span>Aluminium and silicon have very similar X-ray scattering, so are not easily distinguished, but there is a clear difference in their neutron scattering, which helps resolve the question of order/disorder.</p>
<p class="hangam42">(e)<span class="space">&#160;</span>Hydrogen atoms are not easily seen by X-rays in the presence of platinum, especially if they are close to the platinum atom. For neutrons, hydrogen is a strong scatterer and is much more easily, precisely and accurately located. Replacement of H by D would be even better.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>