<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Crystal Structure Determination</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_83" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 83, Bibliography</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="bibliography">
<h1 class="chaptitle">Bibliography</h1>
<section id="bib1" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Sources of examples</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Most of the examples used in this book are drawn from the work of my own research group, though a few have been taken from the published literature with the aid of the Cambridge Structural Database described in <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> and in the following publication.</p>
<p class="hangbibt42" style="width:55%">1.<span class="space">&#160;</span>F. H. Allen and O. Kennard. <i>Chemical Design and Automation News</i> 1993, <b>8</b>, 1 and 31&#x2013;37.</p>
<p class="indentt">References are given below for the major examples in the text.</p>
<p class="hangbibt42" style="width:55%">2.<span class="space">&#160;</span>C. M. Aheme, A. J. Banister, I. Lavender, S. E. Lawrence, J. M. Rawson and W. Clegg. <i>Polyhedron</i> 1996, <b>15</b>, 1877&#x2013;1886 (example of structure completion).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">3.<span class="space">&#160;</span>T. Alsina, W. Clegg, K. A. Fraser and J. Sola. <i>Journal of the Chemical Society, Dalton Transactions</i> 1992, 1393&#x2013;1399 (case study 1).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">4.<span class="space">&#160;</span>C. J. Carmalt, W. Clegg, M. R. J. Elsegood, B. O. Kneisel and N. C. Norman. <i>Acta Crystallographica, Section C</i> 1995, <b>51</b>, 1254&#x2013;1258 (case study 5 and symmetry example 3).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">5.<span class="space">&#160;</span>R. J. Cemik, W. Clegg, C. R. A. Catlow, G. Bushnell-Wye, J. V. Flaherty, G. N. Greaves, I. Burrows, D. J. Taylor, S. J. Teat and M. Hamichi. <i>Journal of Synchrotron Radiation</i> 1997, <b>4</b>, 279&#x2013;286 (case study 7).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">6.<span class="space">&#160;</span>W. Clegg, M. R. J. Elsegood, R. J. Errington and J. Havelock. <i>Journal of the Chemical Society</i>, <i>Dalton Transactions</i> 1996, 681&#x2013;690 (case study 6).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">7.<span class="space">&#160;</span>W. Clegg, D. A. Greenhalgh and B. P. Straughan. <i>Journal of the Chemical Society, Dalton Transactions</i> 1975, 2591&#x2013;2593 (symmetry example 1).</p>
<p class="hangbib42" style="width:55%">8.<span class="space">&#160;</span>S. Abrahamsson and M. M. Harding. <i>Acta Crystallographica</i> 1966, <b>20</b>, 377&#x2013;383 (example of structure solution).</p>
<p class="indentt">The following have not yet been published.</p>
<p class="hangbibt42" style="width:55%">9.<span class="space">&#160;</span>W. Clegg, K. A. Fraser, R. J. Errington <i>et al.</i> (symmetry example 2).</p>
<p class="hangbib10_42" style="width:55%">10.<span class="space">&#160;</span>W. Clegg, L. Horsburgh, R. E. Mulvey <i>et al.</i> (case studies 2 and 3).</p>
<p class="hangbib10_42" style="width:55%">11.<span class="space">&#160;</span>W. Clegg, K. Wade <i>et al.</i> (case study 4).</p>
<a id="page_84" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 84, Bibliography</a>
</section>
<section id="bib2" epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Further reading</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">The following books (listed in alphabetical order of first author) provide more detailed accounts of the subject.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>X-ray analysis and the structure of organic molecules.</i> J. D. Dunitz (1995). Wiley-VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Fundamentals of crystallography.</i> C. Giacovazzo, H. L. Monaco, D. Viterbo, F. Scordari, G. Gilli, G. Zanotti and M. Catti (1992). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Crystal structure analysis for chemists and biologists.</i> J. P. Glusker, M. Lewis and M. Rossi (1994). Wiley-VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Crystal structure analysis: a primer.</i> 2nd edition. J. P. Glusker and K. N. Trueblood (1985). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>The basics of crystallography and diffraction.</i> C. Hammond (1997). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Structure determination by X-ray crystallography.</i> 3rd edition. M. F. C. Ladd and R. A. Palmer (1993). Plenum, New York.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Modem X-ray analysis on single crystals.</i> P. Luger (1980). De Gruyter, Berlin.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Essentials of crystallography.</i> D. McKie and C. McKie (1986). Blackwell, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Crystallography.</i> D. Schwarzenbach (1996). Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>X-ray structure determination. A practical guide.</i> 2nd edition. G. H. Stout and L. H. Jensen (1989). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>Inorganic materials chemistry.</i> M. T. Weller (1994). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindentt"><i>An introduction to X-ray crystallography.</i> 2nd edition. M. M. Woolfson (1997). Cambridge University Press.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>