<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Crystal Structure Determination</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="preface">
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="chaptitle">Preface</h1>
<p class="noindentf">Although there are numerous excellent accounts of X-ray crystallography, I have always had difficulty in recommending one for undergraduate chemistry students, for most of whom the subject is treated in a short course of lectures, perhaps with an associated calculation class or practical experiment. The available texts are simply too long and detailed. The Oxford Chemistry Primer format and size are ideal for this purpose. This book and my own second-year course in Newcastle have evolved together over the last couple of years, and I hope it will provide valuable support material for such courses elsewhere.</p>
<p class="indentf">The Primer length restriction is also a tremendous challenge. I have tried to concentrate on the significance and importance of crystal structure determination in the context of modem chemistry, and use illustrations and examples in preference to rigorous mathematical treatment; some purists will not approve! Many details have had to be left out, and the book is certainly not a complete practical manual.</p>
<p class="indentf">I am very grateful to John Evans for his patience in the long period since this Primer was first suggested, and for his helpful suggestions for improvement to the first draft. I would also like to thank Maijorie Harding, Paul Raithby, Mark Elsegood and Andy Edwards for their comments and corrections. The responsibility for any remaining errors and shortcomings is, of course, entirely my own.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindentf"><i>Newcastle upon Tyne</i></p>
<p class="noindentf">December 1997</p>
<p class="rightm2">Bill Clegg</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>