<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Crystal Structure Determination</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="series">
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<h1 class="chaptitle">Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</h1>
<p class="noindentf">Single-ciystal X-ray diffraction is the bedrock structural technique in modem day chemistry. The majority of inorganic, organometallic and organic molecular and lattice geometries have been established in this way. So it is important for all students to have an understanding of the basis, strengths, precision and limitations of this technique.</p>
<p class="indentf">Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would normally be covered in an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as giving up-to-date information, this series provides explanations and rationales that form the framework of understanding inorganic chemistry. Bill Clegg here gives us an approachable way to grasp the basis and application of X-ray diffraction. The excellent illustrations allow one to follow the origin of diffraction patterns, structure solution methods, three-dimensional structures and forms of disorder. He also gives a glimpse of the exciting new opportunities attainable with the intense X-ray sources.</p>
<p class="indent">&#160;</p>
<p class="right">John Evans</p>
<p class="right"><i>Department of Chemistry</i>, <i>University of Southampton</i></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>