<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="bib">
<a id="page_90" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 90, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="main">Bibliography</h1>
<p class="bib">1. <i>Inorganic solids</i>. Adams, D. M. (1974). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">2. <i>Modern powder diffraction: reviews in mineralogy volume 20</i>. Bish, D. L. and Post, J. E. (ed.) (1989). The Mineralogical Society of America, Washington DC.</p>
<p class="bib">3. <i>Inorganic materials</i>. Bruce, D. W. and O'Hare, D. (ed.) (1992). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">4. <i>Solid state chemistry: techniques</i>. Cheetham, A. K. and Day, P. (ed.) (1987). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">5. <i>Solid state chemistry: compounds</i>. Cheetham, A. K. and Day, P. (ed.) (1992). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">6. <i>Electronic structure and chemistry of solids</i>. Cox, P. A. (1987). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">7. <i>Transition metal oxides</i>. Cox, P. A. (1993). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">8. <i>An introduction to zeolite molecular sieves</i>. Dyer, A. (1988). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">9. <i>Ionic crystals, defects and non-stoichiometry</i>. Greenwood, N. N. (1968). Butterworths, London.</p>
<p class="bib">10. <i>Inorganic structural chemistry</i>. 2nd edition. M&#252;ller, U. (1992). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">11. <i>Solid state chemistry: an introduction</i>. Smart, L. and Moore, E. (1992). Chapman and Hall, London.</p>
<p class="bib">12. <i>Structural inorganic chemistry</i>. 5th edition. Wells, A. F. (1984). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">13. <i>Solid state chemistry and its applications</i>. West, A. R. (1984). Wiley, New York.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>