<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain">Preface</h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The chemistry of inorganic materials is rapidly developing as an important component of university degree courses, reflecting recent advances at the forefront of research. Examples of such materials include the high-temperature superconductors, molecular sieves, fullerenes and layer intercalates. These topics also impinge on other undergraduate courses such as physics and materials science. However, the subject of inorganic solids is rarely covered in any depth in the major textbooks of inorganic chemistry. In addition the techniques used by the solid state chemist to prepare and characterize inorganic materials are seldom introduced alongside, or integrated with, the descriptive materials chemistry. This primer is intended to fill this omission by providing an affordable but comprehensive introduction to the chemistry of solid inorganic materials. The introductory chapters provide the foundation, reviewing basic crystallography and featuring a step-by-step guide to the analysis of powder diffraction data from simple systems. The synthesis of a wide range of inorganic material types is covered. These central techniques and concepts are developed in relation to fundamental solid state chemistry with discussion of simple oxide systems and a guide to the physical properties of solids. Finally the contemporary aspects of the subject are reviewed, integrating many of the ideas introduced in the preceding chapters.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I thank the members of my research group for their forbearance during the construction of this primer and Dr David Currie for useful suggestions and improvements. Finally I am indebted to three generations of my family for their constant support and abundant affection.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent"><i>Southampton</i><br/>March 1994</p>
<p class="fmright1">M.T.W.</p>
</body>
</html>