<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">The synthesis of a particular compound from commercially available starting materials is fundamental to nearly all aspects of organic chemistry. There are usually many possible routes for the synthesis of even simple molecules but which is preferred?</p>
<p class="fmindent">The aim of this short text is to give guidelines to enable you to design strategies for the efficient synthesis of a range of molecules including simple mono- and disubstituted compounds and even more complex molecules such as the pyrrolizidine alkaloids. Our approach is based upon retrosynthetic analysis and the importance of bond polarity is emphasised throughout the discussion. In addition we have highlighted some of the mild reagents which are now available to effect chemo-, regio- and stereoselective reactions.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Expertise in synthetic design, as in many aspects of organic chemistry, comes largely with practice. In this book we hope to provide the underlying principles for you to begin to enjoy the challenge of creating efficient routes for the synthesis of organic compounds.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Many thanks to Roger Alder, Alan Armstrong, Stephen Davies, Tina Gleaves, Polly Harrison, Gerry Poulton, Malcolm Sainsbury, John Studley, Tom Simpson, and Heather Tye for their valuable comments on the manuscript.</p>

<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Bristol</i><span style="float:right">C.L.W.</span><br/><i>Bath</i><span style="float:right">M.W.</span><br/>November 1994</p>
</body>
</html>
