<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent"><a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a></p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Ionic, radical and pericyclic reactions are the three main groups of organic reactions. Every organic chemist has to be able to recognize each of these types of reaction, and know something of their mechanisms and the factors that affect how well they work in organic synthesis.</p>
<p class="fmindent">In this primer, Ian Fleming leads you in a more or less continuous narrative from the simple characteristics of pericyclic reactions to a reasonably full appreciation of their stereochemical idiosyncrasies. He introduces pericyclic reactions and divides them into their four classes in <a href="chapter1.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>. In <a href="chapter2.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> he covers the main features of the most important class, cycloadditions&#x2014;their scope, reactivity, and stereochemistry. In the heart of the book, in <a href="chapter3.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>, he explains these features, using molecular orbital theory, but without the mathematics. He also introduces there the two Woodward-Hoffmann rules that will enable you to predict the stereochemical outcome for any pericyclic reaction, one rule for thermal reactions and its opposite for photochemical reactions. The remaining chapters use this theoretical framework to show how the rules work with the other three classes&#x2014;electrocyclic reactions, sigmatropic rearrangements and group transfer reactions. By the end of the book, you will be able to recognize any pericyclic reaction, and predict with confidence whether it is allowed and with what stereochemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This primer by Ian Fleming on Pericyclic Reactions complements the Primer (No. 36) by Tony Kirby on Stereoelectronic Effects and will be of interest to apprentice and master chemist alike.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">Professor Stephen G. Davies</p>
<p class="fmattribute1"><i>The Dyson Perrins Laboratory, University of Oxford</i></p>
</body>
</html>