<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Author&#x2019;s Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_iii">Page iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Author&#x2019;s Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Today&#x2019;s modern drugs have been uncovered from two major sources: natural products and laboratory synthesis. For the most part, medicines derived from the former source have allowed the diversity of nature&#x2019;s biosynthetic machinery to produce either the compound directly or an advanced intermediate which subsequently may be manipulated in the laboratory to give the desired spectrum of activity. Those synthesised directly by medicinal chemists usually have been the result of a protracted discovery programme using a natural product (e.g. a hormone or an enzyme substrate) or a screening lead as a starting point. Where a drug has been produced by post-biosynthetic modification, it has been excluded from the current manuscript because, frequently, the biosynthesis and synthesis(es) have been reviewed in detail elsewhere.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The original intention of this book was to compare the initial research route to a new compound with that of the final manufacturing process. The latter information drug companies clearly want to keep to themselves. Despite multiple inquiries to most major companies whose products are included in this book, there was little willingness to help. Nevertheless, it has been educational to study the original syntheses with more recent approaches which aim either at improving the route or at validating newer methodologies or reagents in the context of drug synthesis. Since for many drugs the marketed product was originally prepared as a racemic mixture, perhaps the most important comparison is between that route and alternatives which involve some element of asymmetric synthesis.</p>
<a class="page" id="page_iv">Page iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmindent">The chapters are ordered into many of the major categories of human disease&#x2014;cardiovascular (<a href="Chapter1.xhtml">Chapters 1&#x2013;</a><a href="Chapter3.xhtml">3</a>), gastrointestinal (<a href="Chapter4.xhtml">Chapters 4&#x2013;</a><a href="Chapter5.xhtml">5</a>), central nervous system (<a href="Chapter6.xhtml">Chapters 6&#x2013;</a><a href="Chapter7.xhtml">7</a>), inflammatory disease (<a href="Chapter8.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>) and infectious diseases (<a href="Chapter9.xhtml">Chapters 9&#x2013;</a><a href="Chapter10.xhtml">10</a>). Individual chapters are focussed on collections of drugs that operate via the same mechanism. After an introduction to the discovery and mechanism of action, each drug is discussed in terms of its first synthesis and then later routes which have points of interest to the organic chemist. It is important to note, that, unlike many &#x2018;academic&#x2019; syntheses, the best methods are not necessarily the most elegant, rather the most pragmatic. One interesting challenge to the reader is to determine which route may be the most convenient on a manufacturing scale and what changes should be made to address any deficiencies in this respect. To help, consider the availability and cost of starting materials and reagents, safety of the proposed reactions using reaction vessels of hundreds of gallons, reproducibility of the process, disposal of the waste materials, the possibility of multi-step, one pot reactions and sensitivity of the yield to minor changes in reaction conditions. These issues are discussed in detail in &#x2018;Process Development&#x2019; by S. Lee and G. Robinson, Oxford Chemistry Primer No. 30. Finally, some key references are given to the literature describing each drug, usually the US patent citation and one or more pivotal paper; note that the reference listing is meant not to be comprehensive.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:100%;text-align:right;">J. S</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">2000</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>