<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_iii">Page iii, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Mankind has benefitted immeasurably from the contribution that organic synthesis has made to the discovery and development of pharmaceuticals. The discovery of new lead compounds and the optimisation of their structure to elicit the best pharmacological profile, thus generating novel drug candidates, requires the invention of versatile synthetic routes and methodologies. In this Primer John Saunders describes synthetic routes that have been used to synthesise the structures of 37 of the top drugs in current usage. This provides an ideal format for introducing students to a wide range of applied chemistry alongside brief descriptions of the modes of action of these drugs.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Oxford Chemistry Primers have been designed to provide concise introductions relevant to all students of chemistry and contain only the essential material that would normally be covered in an 8-10 lecture course. In this Primer John Saunders provides an interesting and very readable account of this enormously important area. This Primer will be of interest to apprentice and Master chemist alike.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">Stephen G. Davies</p>
<p class="fmattribute1">The Dyson Perrins Laboratory, University of Oxford.</p>
</body>
</html>