<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="page1" style="width:100%;"><a id="page_v">Page v, Preface</a></p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">It has been recognised for many years that power ultrasound has great potential for use in a wide variety of processes in the chemical and allied industries. Reported applications include cleaning, sterilisation, flotation, drying, degassing, defoaming, soldering, plastic welding, drilling, filtration, homogenisation, emulsification, dissolution, deaggreg&#x00E0;tion of powders, biological cell disruption, extraction, crystallisation, and, more recently, as a stimulus for chemical reactions.</p>
<p class="fmindent">With the increasing exploitation of power ultrasound in chemistry and its inclusion in university courses comes the need for specialist text books covering this discipline. Several advanced texts exist but there is currently nothing in print which offers a basic introduction to the subject for undergraduate readers. In 1991 I wrote a text entitled &#x201C;Practical Sonochemistry, A users guide to applications in chemistry and chemical engineering&#x201D; which covered the basic aspects of theory and laboratory practise but is now out of print. This primer updates and extends the information which was previously published in that text. It is designed to answer the following questions:</p>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:0.8em;">What is sonochemistry&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Why is it important&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">What systems are affected by sonochemistry&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">What are the major applications of this technique&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">What types of equipment are available and how do they compare&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">How is the equipment best configured in the laboratory&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">What parameters can be changed to optimise sonochemical results&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">What equipment is available for the scale-up of sonochemistry&#x003F;</p>
<p class="fmindent" style="margin-top:0.8em;">An ever increasing number of chemists are using power ultrasound to promote synthetic reactions yet many experimentalists experience difficulty in producing significant sonochemical effects. On the whole this problem appears to be the result of a lack of appreciation of the correct methodologies to adopt in order to introduce power ultrasound into a reacting medium. This in turn is almost certainly because of a lack of understanding of the principles of ultrasound and acoustic cavitation&#x2014;subjects which are not very common in the background of practising chemists. In <a href="chapter1.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> you will find a general introduction to sonochemistry. This includes experimental methods which have been used for the determination of the cavitation threshold for a medium, i.e. the minimum ultrasonic power level at which cavitation can be induced and sonochemistry becomes possible. This chapter also reviews the methods available for the measurement of the ultrasonic power level entering a reaction. <a href="chapter2.xhtml">Chapters 2</a> and <a href="chapter3.xhtml">3</a> contain practical details on the construction and method of use of ultrasonic baths and probe systems, respectively, while <a href="chapter4.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> explores the type of equipment which is currently available for large-scale sonochemistry. I hope that these four chapters contain the basic information necessary for the chemist to understand how to use power ultrasound in reactions, and for the engineer to appreciate some of the important design implications when introducing sonochemistry or ultrasonic processing on a plant scale.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This book is suitable for chemists and chemical engineers at all levels who wish to gain a rapid insight into what is becoming a standard method in the chemical laboratory.</p>
</body>
</html>