<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The world is not at equilibrium, and the events that give vitality and movement are transitions towards equilibrium from the present state of imbalance. Chemical transformations often contribute fundamentally to this process and their study is challenging and important. The development of fast-reaction techniques over recent decades means that there are no longer reactions which need be described as &#x2018;instantaneous&#x2019;, and reactions occurring on time-scales down to 1 ps are now accessible.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The early chapters of this text provide a basic introduction to the kinetics of simple and complex reaction systems in solution. The material is extended in the remaining chapters to present a treatment of more advanced topics, comprising solvent effects, fast-reaction techniques, and heterogeneous liquid-liquid two-phase systems. The latter introduces currently active and important research research areas in solution kinetics, including phase-transfer catalysis, and diffusion and transport in chemical and biological membranes.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Max-Planck-lnstitut fur Biophysikalische Chemie, Gottingen, for hospitality during the writing of part of this text, and in particular Professor Hermann Schneider and Dr Mladen Grubic. I am indebted to my colleagues, Ian Berry, Colin Brennan, Danny Levin, and John Umbers, and to Professors Erwin Buncel and Paolo De Maria, who read and commented on the whole text. Thanks are also due to other friends and colleagues who have contributed valuable suggestions. In conclusion. I thank ZENECA Limited for access to library and computing facilities.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Manchester</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">B. G. C</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">September 1993</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>