<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:100%;">Page 88, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="main">Bibliography</h1>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Introductory NMR textbooks include:</b></h3>
<p class="bib">Bovey, F. A. (1988). <i>Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy</i> (2nd edn). Academic Press, San Diego.</p>
<p class="bib">Carrington, A. and McLachlan, A. D. (1967). <i>Introduction to magnetic resonance.</i> Harper and Row, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">Freeman, R. (1987). <i>A handbook of nuclear magnetic resonance.</i> Longman, Harlow.</p>
<p class="bib">Gunther, H (1980). <i>NMR spectroscopy.</i> Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<p class="bib">Harris, R. K. (1983). <i>Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.</i> Pitman, London.</p>
<p class="bib">McLauchlan, K. A. (1972). <i>Magnetic resonance.</i> Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bib">Pople, J. A., Schneider, W. G. and Bernstein, H. J. (1959). <i>High-resolution nuclear magnetic resonance.</i> McGraw-Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">Wehrli, F. W., Marchand, A. P. and Wehrli, S. (1988). <i>Interpretation of carbon-13 NMR spectra</i> (2nd edn). Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-top:2em;"><b>Other books referred to in the text:</b></h3>
<p class="bib">Atkins, P. W. (1983). <i>Molecular quantum mechanics</i> (2nd edn). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">Derome, A. E. (1987). <i>Modern NMR techniques for chemistry research.</i> Pergamon, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bib">Ernst, R. R., Bodenhausen, G. and Wokaun, A. (1987). <i>Principles of nuclear magnetic resonance in one and two dimensions.</i> Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bib">Goldman, M. (1988). <i>Quantum description of high-resolution NMR in liquids.</i> Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bib">Homans, S. W. (1989). <i>A dictionary of concepts in NMR.</i> Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bib">Kemp, W. (1986). <i>NMR in chemistry.</i> Macmillan, Basingstoke.</p>
<p class="bib">Munowitz, M. (1988) <i>Coherence and NMR.</i> Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">Neuhaus, D. and Williamson, M. (1989). <i>The nuclear Overhauser effect in structural and conformational analysis.</i> VCH Publishers, New York.</p>
<p class="bib">Sanders, J. K. M. and Hunter, B. K. (1993). <i>Modern NMR spectroscopy</i> (2nd edn). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="bib">Slichter, C. P. (1990). <i>Principles of magnetic resonance</i> (3rd edn). Springer-Verlag, Berlin.</p>
<p class="bib">Williams, D. H. and Fleming, I. (1989). <i>Spectroscopic methods in organic chemistry</i> (4th edn). McGraw-Hill, London.</p>
<p class="bib">Wuthrich, K. (1986). <i>NMR of proteins and nucleic acids.</i> Wiley, New York</p>
</div></body></html>