<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">The nature and structure of an organic molecule are described in terms of its valence elec-trons (<i>&#x03C3;</i> bonds, <i>&#x03C0;</i> bonds, and lone pairs), bond lengths, bond angles, and bond polarities. Chemical reactivity is expressed by rate constants and, for reversible reactions, equilibrium constants under specified experimental conditions. The relationships between the nature and structure of a molecule and the compound&#x2019;s chemical reactivity, and how these relationships are investigated, are the subject of this book. It is an area of organic chemistry which requires a sound appreciation of some physical chemistry, and is seldom covered in general organic chemistry texts. My aim has been to help the reader to progress from the curly arrow approach to organic reaction mechanisms (a basic knowledge of which is assumed) towards quantitative considerations of reactivity based upon knowledge of molecular properties.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The first chapter introduces a way of describing organic chemical reactions which allows an analysis of the relationship between molecular structure and reactivity. Thereafter, I cover the principal methodologies by which reactivity relationships are investigated, and have included a broad range of results and applications. Throughout, I have tried to remain close to the experimental basis of the subjects covered and to avoid the desiccating effects of over-mathematical formalisms. Problems are provided at the ends of chapters.</p>
<p class="fmindent">All chapters have been read by experts on particular topics (Rory More O&#x2019;Ferrall, Mike Page, John Shorter, Andrew Williams, and Ian Williams), and the whole text has been read by Ian Watt and Steve Davies. I am very grateful to these friends and colleagues for their help and guidance. I also wish to thank participants (students and teachers) on the Winter Schools on Organic Reactivity which have taken place since 1991 in Bressanone, Italy, under the direction of Gianfranco Scorrano. Much of this little book has been influenced by lectures and discussions which took place throughout these Winter Schools. Next, I must thank those chemists (past and present) whose experimental results I have used throughout the text in various ways. Strict limitations on space have prevented me from referencing their work in the usual manner. Finally, I would be grateful to hear from readers who detect errors of any sort in the book.</p>

<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Newcastle upon Tyne</i><span style="float:right">H.M.</span> <br/>March 1999</p>
</body>
</html>
