<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>References and background reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_95" class="page" >Page 95, References and background reading</a></p>
<h1 class="h1">References and background reading</h1>

<p class="noindent">R. P. Bell, <i>The proton in chemistry</i> (2nd edn), Chapman and Hall, London (1973).</p>
<p class="noindent">E. F. Caldin and V. Gold (editors), <i>Proton transfer reactions,</i> Chapman and Hall, London (1975).</p>
<p class="noindent">B.	K. Carpenter, <i>Determination of organic reaction mechanisms,</i> Wiley-Interscience, New York (1984).</p>
<p class="noindent">N. B. Chapman and J. Shorter (editors) <i>Correlation analysis in chemistry: recent advances,</i> Plenum Press, New York (1978).</p>
<p class="noindent">R. D. Guthrie and W. P. Jencks, &#x201C;IUPAC recommendations for the representation of reaction mechanisms&#x201D;, <i>Acc. Chem. Res.,</i> <b>22</b>, 343 (1989).</p>
<p class="noindent">L. P. Hammett, <i>Physical organic chemistry</i> (2nd edn), McGraw-Hill, New York (1970).</p>
<p class="noindent">J. Hine, <i>Structural effects on equilibria in organic chemistry,</i> Wiley-Interscience, New York (1975).</p>
<p class="noindent">C.	K. Ingold, <i>Structure and mechanism in organic chemistry</i> (2nd edn), G. Bell and Sons, London (1969).</p>
<p class="noindent">N. S. Isaacs, <i>Physical organic chemistry</i> (2nd edn), Longman, Harlow (1995).</p>
<p class="noindent">W. P. Jencks, <i>Catalysis in chemistry and enzymology,</i> McGraw-Hill, New York (1969).</p>
<p class="noindent">C. D. Johnson, <i>The Hammett equation,</i> Cambridge University Press, London (1973).</p>
<p class="noindent">T. H. Lowry and K. S. Richardson, <i>Mechanism and theory in organic chemistry</i> (3rd edn), Harper Collins, New York (1987).</p>
<p class="noindent">H. Maskill, <i>The physical basis of organic chemistry,</i> Oxford University Press, Oxford (1985).</p>
<p class="noindent">H. Maskill, <i>Mechanisms of organic reactions,</i> Oxford University Press, Oxford (1996).</p>
<p class="noindent">L.	Melander and W. H. Saunders, <i>Reaction rates of isotopic molecules,</i> Wiley, New York (1980)	.</p>
<p class="noindent">J. W. Moore and R. G. Pearson, <i>Kinetics and mechanism</i> (3rd edn), Wiley, New York
(1981)	.</p>
<p class="noindent">P. Muller, &#x201C;Glossary of terms used in physical organic chemistry&#x201D;, <i>Pure &#x0026; Appl. Chem.,</i> <b>66</b>, 1077 (1994).</p>
<p class="noindent">M.	I. Page and A. Williams (editors), <i>Enzyme mechanisms</i>, Royal Society of Chemistry, London (1987).</p>
<p class="noindent">M. I Page and A. Williams, <i>Organic and bio-organic mechanisms,</i> Addison Wesley Longman, Harlow (1997).</p>
<p class="noindent">C. Reichardt, <i>Solvents and solvent effects in organic chemistry</i> (2nd edn), VCH Weinheim, Germany (1988).</p>
<p class="noindent">C. Walsh, <i>Enzymatic reaction mechanisms,</i> Freeman, San Francisco (1979).</p>
<p class="noindent">In addition to the above, two very important series are
<i>Advances in physical organic chemistry,</i> Academic Press, London, and<i>Progress in physical organic chemistry</i>, Wiley-Interscience, New York.</p>
</body>
</html>