<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Foundations of Inorganic Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page_v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This book introduces some concepts of inorganic chemistry clearly and concisely. The material could form the basis of an introductory course in inorganic chemistry and is designed to be useful as a link between school and university. When commencing a chemistry course, many students find the amount and variety of material to be mastered somewhat bewildering. It is hoped that the reader will appreciate that there is some order amongst the apparent chaos.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Coverage is aimed at the <i>student</i> rather than the <i>lecturer</i>. Our aim is to develop an understanding and appreciation of some chemical ideas, and that these ideas will encourage the student to adapt and extend current models to new situations. It is anticipated that this short text could find a place <i>alongside</i> textbooks containing more detailed coverage.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Many people made constructive criticism during the preparation of this book, particularly Nigel Mason, and we acknowledge them here. The remaining errors and misconceptions are, of course, ours.</p>
<table style="margin-top:1em; width:100%;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:left;"><i>Sheffield</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:right;">Mark Winter</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:left;">July 2000</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:right;">John Andrew</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
</body>
</html>