<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Foundations of Inorganic Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page_v, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Most Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually form an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as providing up-to-date information, this series expresses the explanations and rationales that form the framework of current understanding of inorganic chemistry. This Primer is aimed at providing the fundamentals of inorganic chemistry that are appropriate to students beginning a university chemistry course. It is seen as the link for this area between university and school or sixth form college. As such it should appeal to students taking A-levels and preparing for university, and also to those taking first level university courses.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Mark Winter has already written two Primers which have both been very successful. The quality of their presentation and the clarity of their approach is reflected in this book. John Andrew is a highly experienced sixth form teacher. Their combined experience has resulted in a very approachable textbook covering the Foundations of Inorganic Chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">John Evans</p>
<p class="fmattribute"><i>Department of Chemistry, University of Southampton</i></p>
</div>
</body>
</html>