<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Epilogue: where to from here?</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch10">
<a id="page_93" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 93, Epilogue: where to from here?</a>
<h1 class="main" style="width:58%;">10<span class="space">&#160;</span>Epilogue: where to from here?</h1>

<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:6em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2a-1">The ability to self-assemble into complex structures is one of the most remarkable and important features of the molecules within living systems.</p>

<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:5em;">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent2a-1">The same factors that are exploited by nature to produce molecules with interesting properties are increasingly used in other areas of chemistry. As an example, synthetic organic materials, such as polyesters, are now produced with sophisticated properties tailored to particular needs. It is informative to apply and extend the knowledge gained from this book to such related areas of science. As well as understanding more about the world we live in, this will also consolidate your understanding of chemical biology.</p>
<p class="noindent1" style="margin-top:4em;">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent2a-1">Chemical biology has many exciting applications which are also the focus of a great deal of research. Important areas include medical diagnosis and treatment (new drugs and therapies), environmental science, materials science and forensic science (e.g. DNA fingerprinting).</p></aside>


<p class="noindent">This book has introduced some of the intrinsic chemical properties of important types of biological molecules, especially amino acids, sugar phosphate derivatives and related macromolecules (proteins and nucleic acids). It has shown how a small number of fundamental chemical properties (particularly acid-base chemistry, electrostatic charge, hydrogen bonding and stereochemistry) can be used to understand many of the biological functions of these molecules. As well as discussing the chemical potential of the functional groups found in biological molecules, this book has highlighted the way in which amphiphilic molecules, e.g. macro- molecules and lipids, can adopt ordered, functionalised structures in an aqueous environment.</p>
<p class="indent">The availability of such ordered structures with diverse chemical functional groups provides the foundations for the molecular basis of life. In particular, macromolecules that adopt extended structures are used by biology as fibres (proteins and polysaccharides) and for information storage (DNA); proteins that fold into compact structures are used to bind other molecules for the purposes of transport (proteins) and catalysis (proteins and RNA). In addition, structures built from macromolecules and from assemblies of phospholipids provide crucial interfaces between different biological compartments, and between their compartments and the outside world.</p>
<p class="indent">We hope that this book provides a good starting point for understanding chemical biology. The best way to further your understanding is by solving problems, e.g. answering questions found in textbooks. But science really is about developing a questioning attitude to the world and you can generate your own problems by questioning what you read and see about you. For example, when you encounter a metabolic reaction for the first time, you might ask: is this like any metabolic reaction I have seen before? What are the possible organic chemical mechanisms for the process? How might an enzyme catalyse the reaction? If a coenzyme is needed, what is its chemical role? What is the role of the process for the organism that undertakes it?</p>
<p class="indent">As you study further, you will see the basic concepts of chemical biology applied to ever more sophisticated systems. You will encounter more types of naturally occurring molecule, more metabolic reactions, more complex macromolecular structures and the use of more chemical elements. All these chemical processes are organized and regulated in a sophisticated manner. The basic chemical principles, however, remain the same as those that you will have read about in this book. <a id="page_94" class="page">Page 94, Epilogue: where to from here?</a></p>





<p class="indent">Furthermore, you will find that at the frontiers of chemical biology there is a vast range of exciting problems that challenge the ingenuity of research scientists. How can we make and modify complex molecules found in nature? How do proteins fold to form complex structures? Can we predict such structures from amino acid sequences? How can we understand the biological functions of proteins identified by the sequencing of the human genome? How can we study individual biological molecules in action? What chemistry can we study as it takes place in living cells? And finally, can chemical, a subject that promises so much for our future health and prosperity, even provide a molecular glimpse into the past to understand how life began on primitive earth?</p>
<p class="indent">The answers to these and a myriad of other equally fascinating and important questions will undoubtedly emerge in the future, as research in this interdisciplinary area continues to attract scientists from a wide variety of traditional disciplines. We hope that this short book has excited your interest to the extent that you will follow the future developments in chemical biology, and perhaps might even have stimulated you to take part in some of the many research opportunities and challenges that lie ahead.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>

