<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_iii" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page_iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="width:60%;">Chemical biology is a subject born out of a desire to understand the molecular basis of life. What are the molecules found in cells? How do their intrinsic properties equip them to perform all the complex processes found in living systems? This book introduces the fundamental chemistry of the molecules that are essential to all cells. The molecules we discuss include amino acids and sugar phosphate derivatives, and the macromolecules derived from them (proteins and nucleic acids, respectively), and the phospholipids and their derivatives that form the basis of biological membranes. In such a short text, it is not possible to provide a comprehensive account of the chemistry of these molecules; instead, this book attempts to introduce important concepts concerning their intrinsic chemistry. The aim is to provide the fundamental ideas relating to the chemistry of life that can then be applied in due course to more advanced aspects of chemical biology.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-15.5em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">Chemical biology is a subject in which the principles of chemistry are applied to understand the function of biological molecules in their cellular environment.</p>
</aside>
<p class="fmindent" style="width:60%;">This book developed from a course of lectures and classes that the three of us taught together for several years to undergraduate chemists and</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-9em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The solution of research problems in chemical biology is the basis by which the subject develops. This type of research is leading both to an increased understanding of the molecular basis of life, and to exciting new applications of chemistry in subjects such as medicine and materials science.</p>
</aside>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>

<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv">Page_iv, Preface</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>

<p class="fmnoindent" style="width:60%;">biochemists at the University of Oxford. It was our students on this course, and a group of graduates and post-doctoral research assistants who acted as their mentors, inspired this book. They, and many others who have been exposed to parts of this material, have provided invaluable feedback for which we are very grateful.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-6em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2" style="margin-bottom:0.4em;">This book uses specific case studies to illustrate key features of chemical biology. It is impossible to acknowledge all the scientists who have contributed to these studies, but they are the other inspiration of this book. Special mention should, however, be made of the pioneering research on globins by Max Perutz and colleagues which forms the basis of much of <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>; and of the research onTIM by Jeremy Knowles and colleagues which is highlighted in <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>.</p>
<p class="noindent2">The depictions of three-dimensional protein structures were produced using the program &#x2018;Molscript&#x2019;(P. J. Kraulis (1991) <i>Journal of Applied Crystallography</i>, <b>24</b>, pp. 946-50).</p>
</aside>
<p class="fmindent" style="width:60%;">We should also like to take the opportunity to thank specifically our colleagues who have provided detailed assistance in the production of the final version of book: Lorna Smith and Phillip Rendle were of great help in producing some of the diagrams involving macromolecular structures; Jack Heinemann kindly helped us avoid errors of genetics in <a href="Chapter09.xhtml">Chapter 9</a>; and Peter Steel provided wise advice on organic chemistry. The input of Ashley Sparrow and Claire Vallance, who criticized earlier drafts of the whole book from the perspective of non-specialists, was especially useful. The errors that remain are, of course, solely our responsibility. A. J. P. gratefully acknowledges funding from the University of Canterbury in the form of an Erskine Fellowship and study leave. Without such generous support, this book would have had an even more prolonged gestation period.</p>
<table class="width40">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Cambridge</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-left:20.4em;">C. M. D.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Christchurch</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-left:20.7em;">J. A. G.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">July 2001</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-left:20.8em;">A. J. P.</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>