<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Inorganic Spectroscopic Methods</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>

<section epub:type="chapter" id="preface">
<h1 class="chaptitle">Preface</h1>
<p class="noindentf">An understanding and ability to interpret spectroscopic data is a pre-requisite for students in chemistry and related disciplines from the undergraduate level onwards. The aim of this book, therefore, is to provide a working knowledge of the common spectroscopic techniques and their application to inorganic-based systems. In a book of this size, and at this level, it is not possible to demonstrate the huge range of spectroscopic applications across the whole of inorganic chemistry but merely an introduction to the areas most commonly encountered in undergraduate courses. The approach taken is unashamedly aimed at the application of the techniques and interpretation of the spectra obtained rather than providing a theoretical treatment of the methods; these can be found in the textbooks referenced at the end of each chapter.</p>
<p class="indentf">The starting point is a description of electromagnetic radiation and its interaction with matter as this is a common feature for many of the techniques discussed later. Each subsequent chapter covers related spectroscopic methods and includes a brief, and non-rigorous, look at their physical basis and applications typical in inorganic compounds. A number of worked examples are given in the text along with short questions in the margin to test the basics. Because it is rarely wise to rely on any single technique to completely identify unknown materials, the last chapter looks at problems which require the application of a number of different spectroscopic methods to provide a complete solution.</p>
<p class="indentf">I would like to thank all my colleagues, staff, and students who have read, commented and corrected parts of the text, provided spectra and ideas. Particular thanks go to the postgraduate and undergraduate students who have worked in my research group. Finally I want to thank my wife for her patience and understanding while I have been writing this book.</p>
<p class="indent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Manchester</i></p>
<p class="noindent">October 1997</p>
<p class="rightm2">A.K.B.</p>

</section>
</body>
</html>