<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 88, Further reading</a>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2"><b>Further reading</b></h2>
<p class="noindent" style="text-align:justify;width:70%;">In addition to the specific noindentfs given in the text, the following books are recommended for further information:</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">R.D. Adams and F. A. Cotton, eds. (1998) <i>Catalysis by Di</i>- <i>and Potynuclear</i> <i>Metal Cluster Complexes,</i> Wiley-VCH, New York.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">F. A. Cotton and R. A. Walton (1993) <i>Multiple Bonds between Metal Atoms,</i> 2nd Edn, Oxford University Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">F.A. Cotton and G. Wilkinson (1988) <i>Advanced Inorganic Chemistry,</i> 5th ed., Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">S. Cotton (1997) <i>Chemistry of Precious Metals</i>, Chapman &#x0026; Hall<b>,</b> London.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">J. Emsley (1998) <i>The Elements,</i> 3rd ed., Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">J.J.R. Fra&#x00FA;sto de Silva and R.J.P. Williams (1991) <i>The BiologicalChemistry of the Elements</i>, Clarendon Press, Oxford; Chapter 17 is particularly relevant.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">N.N. Greenwood and A. Earnshaw (1997) <i>Chemistry of the Elements,</i> 2nd edn, Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">S.F.A. Kettle (1996) <i>Physical Inorganic Chemistry</i>, Spektram, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">R.B. King, ed. (1994) <i>Encyclopedia of Inorganic Chemistry,</i> Wiley, Chichester (individual entries under element names).</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">M.T. Pope (1983) <i>Heteropoly and Isopoly Oxometalates</i>, Springer-Verlag, New York.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">M.T. Pope and A. M&#x00FC;ller, eds. (1994) <i>Polyoxometalates: from Platonic Solids to Anti</i>-<i>Retroviral</i> <i>Activity,</i> Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht,</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">A.G. Sharpe (1992) <i>Inorganic Chemistry</i>, 3rd ed., Longman, Harlow.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">D.F. Shriver, P.W. Atkins and C.H. Langford (1994) <i>Inorganic Chemistry</i>, 2nd ed., Oxford University Press, Oxford.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="head-1_1">
<p class="h2"><b>Metals in action</b></p>
<p class="noindent">The following articles provide accounts of aspects of some of the heavier <i>d</i>-block metals with an emphasis on applications or potential applications:</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">F. Barigelletti, L. Flamigni, J.-P. Collin and J.-P. Sauvage (1997) <i>Chemical Communications</i>, 333 &#x2013; <i>Vectorial transfer of electronic energy in rodlike ruthenium</i>-<i>osmium dinuclear complexes</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">J. Barrett and M. Hughes (1997) <i>Chemistry in Britain,</i> <b>33</b>, number 6, 23 &#x2013; <i>A golden opportunity</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">L. Davidson, Y. Quinn and D.F. Steele (1998) <i>Platinum Metals Review</i>, <b>42</b>, 90 &#x2013; <i>Ruthenium</i>-<i>mediated electrochemical destruction of organic wastes</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">G. Denuault (1996) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 678 &#x2013; <i>Microelectrodes</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">R.C. Elder and K. Tepperman (1994) in <i>Encyclopedia of Inorganic Chemistry,</i> ed. R.B. King, Wiley, Chichester, vol. 4, p. 2165 &#x2013; <i>Metal</i>-<i>based drugs and imaging agents</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">M, Green (1996) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 641 &#x2013; <i>The promise of electrochromic systems</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;"><i>The</i> <i>heavier d</i>-<i>block metals: inorganic and coordination chemistry</i> 89</p>
<a id="page_i" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 89, Further reading</a>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">W.P. Griffith (1992) <i>Chemical Society Reviews</i>, <b>21</b>, 179 &#x2013; <i>Ruthenium</i>, <i>oxo complexes as organic oxidants</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">J.N. Huiberts, R. Griessen, J.H. Rector, RJ. Wijngaarden, J.P. Dekker, D.G. de Groot and NJ. Koeman (1996) <i>Nature</i>, <b>380</b>, 213 &#x2013; <i>Yttrium and lanthanum hydride films with switchable optical properties</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">R.W. McCabe and J, M. Kisenyi (1995) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 605 &#x2013; <i>Advances in automotive catalyst technology</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">T.R. Ralph and G.A. Hards (1998) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 335 &#x2013; <i>Fuel cells: clean energy production for the new millennium</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">T.R. Ralph and G.A. Hards (1998) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 337 &#x2013; <i>Powering the cars and homes of tomorrow</i></p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">J. Reedijk (1996), <i>Chemical Communications</i>, 801 &#x2013; <i>Improved understanding in platinum antitumour chemistry</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">M.J. Vimy (1995) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 1.4 &#x2013; <i>Toxic teeth: the chronic mercury poisoning of modern man</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">M.D Ward (1996) <i>Chemistry &#x0026; Industry</i>, 568 &#x2013; <i>Current developments in molecular wires</i>.</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">C.G. Young and A.G. Wedd (1997) <i>Chemical Communications</i>, 1251 &#x2013; <i>Molybdenum and tungsten pterin enzymes</i>.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<p class="h2"><b>World-Wide Web</b></p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">The World-Wide Web is an excellent and continually changing source of information:</p>
<p class="noindentf" style="text-align:justify;width:66%;">P. Murray-Rust, H.S. Rzepa and BJ. Whitaker (1997) <i>Chemical Society Reviews,</i> <b>26</b>, 1 &#x2013; <i>The World</i>-<i>Wide Web as a chemical information tool</i>.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>