<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>The Basis and Applications of Heterogeneous Catalysis</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page_iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">Heterogeneous catalysis is one of the most important technologies for our modern society. It underpins the chemical and materials industries, being fundamental to the production of fuels and plastics, for instance. This strategic importance has recently been stressed in reports to both American and British governments, resulting in specific support for this area of science. Thus, it is essential that a Primer covers this extensive subject. The book is divided into three sections dealing with fundamental aspects of the phenomenon, the nature of catalytic materials and the applications of catalytic technology in everyday modern life. A very important and expanding area of application is in helping to solve pollution problems and this is addressed in <a href="Chapter08.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>. The book is aimed at undergraduate students and their teachers who may be involved with individual courses in this field. It will also be useful, however, to Master&#x2019;s students and those beginning a research career in catalysis, surface science, and related fields. It covers most of the main themes important in catalysis, namely the nature and kinetics of adsorption and surface reactions, catalyst preparation and characterization, and the application of these ideas to the needs of society for particular products and processes.</p>
<p class="fm-in">Finally, I would like to express thanks to several people for their involvement with this book. First and foremost, my student Richard Holroyd who organized the text and figures through several drafts; his uncomplaining hard work has helped see the book through to completion. I am also grateful to a number of people who read the manuscript; thanks are especially due to Dr Mark Howard of BP Chemicals Ltd, Hull and to Prof. Jack Frost of Johnson Matthey Technology Centre, Sonning Common for their helpful comments.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>Reading</i><br/>November 1997</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">M.B.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>