<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="bib">
<a id="page_87" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 87, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="main">Bibliography</h1>
<p class="hang">Atkins, P. W. and Friedman, R.S. (1997).<i> Molecular Quantum Mechanics</i>, 3rd edn, Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="hang">Banwell, C. N. and McCash, E. M. (1994).<i> Fundamentals of Molecular Spectroscopy</i>, 4th edn, McGraw-Hill, London.</p>
<p class="hang">Barrow, G. M. (1962).<i>Introduction to Molecular Spectroscopy,</i> McGraw-Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="hang">Bernath, P. F. (1995).<i>Spectra of Atoms and Molecules</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="hang">Bunker, P. R. and Jensen, P. (1998).<i>Molecular Symmetry and Spectroscopy,</i> 2nd edn. NRC Research Press, Ottawa, Canada.</p>
<p class="hang">Dixon, R. N. (1965).<i>Spectroscopy and Structure</i>, Methuen, London.</p>
<p class="hang">Eland, J. H. D. (1984).<i>Photoelectron Spectroscopy</i>, 2nd edn, Butterworths, London.</p>
<p class="hang">Hollas, J. M. (1996).<i>Modern Spectroscopy</i>, 3rd edn, John Wiley and Sons, Chichester, UK.</p>
<p class="hang">Hollas, J. M. (1982).<i>High Resolution Spectroscopy</i>, Butterworths, London. Reprinted as a 2nd edn by John Wiley and Sons, Chichester, 1998.</p>
<p class="hang">Herzberg, G. (1950).<i>Spectra of Diatomic Molecules</i>, 2nd edn, Van Nostrand, New York. Reprinted 1989 with corrections by Krieger Publishing Co., Malabar, Florida.</p>
<p class="hang">Kroto, H. W. (1975).<i>Molecular Rotation Spectroscopy</i>, John Wiley and Sons, London. Reprinted 1992 as a Dover Paperback edition.</p>
<p class="hang">Lefebvre-Brion, H. and Field, R. W. (1986).<i> Perturbations in the Spectra of Diatomic Molecules</i>, Academic Press, San Diego. A new edition of this book, re-titled<i> Spectroscopy and Dynamics of Diatomic Molecules</i>, is due to be published in late 1999 or early 2000, again by Academic Press.</p>
<p class="hang">Softley, T. P. (1994).<i>Atomic Spectra</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>