<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="frontmatter">
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain">Preface</h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This book is an introduction to Molecular Spectroscopy, based loosely on a course given to second-year undergraduates at Oxford University. The topic is important for several reasons. Spectroscopy provides a direct and accurate method for the determination of the structure of molecules, their dissociation energies, and ionization potentials. A knowledge of the rotational, vibrational, and electronic levels of molecules is also needed for the calculation of their partition functions, thereby opening up the path to statistical mechanical calculations. Molecular spectra also provide some of the most beautiful and illuminating examples of quantum mechanics in action. Finally, many modern experiments in Physical Chemistry are based on spectroscopy in some form or other. A sound knowledge of the subject is therefore essential if these experiments are to be properly devised and the information determined from them is to be correctly interpreted.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The book is a short one and inevitably there are limits to what it covers. Firstly, it is almost completely restricted to diatomic molecules. No one doubts the significance of this class of molecule but several important aspects of structure and dynamics only manifest themselves in triatomic and larger molecules. Secondly, the book deals with the principles of spectroscopy and not its practice. It should be realized that spectroscopy is above all an experimental subject and the most important work that is done is that carried out in the laboratory. Thirdly, a few important topics have been excluded in order to meet the constraints of length, for example, the spectroscopy of open shell molecules.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Finally, I would like to acknowledge the debt that I owe to several individuals who, in their very different ways, have all contributed to my knowledge of molecular spectroscopy and have opened my eyes to its many delights. They are (in alphabetical order) Philip Bunker, Alan Carrington, Ian Mills, Donald Ramsay, and Jim Watson. I am also very grateful to John Freeman who prepared most of the diagrams in the book.</p>
<p class="fmnoindenta"><i>Oxford</i><br/>October 1997</p>
<p class="fmright1">J. M. B.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>