<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:70%">Page 88, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="h1"><b>Bibliography</b></h1>
<p class="indent3-ka">S. Arrhenius (1887). Uber die Dissociation der in Wasser gelosten Stoffe, Z <i>Phys. Chem.</i> 1: 631.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. G. Bates (1964). <i>Determination of pH: theory and practice</i>, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   F. G. K. Baucke (1994). Investigation of electrode glass membranes: proposal of a dissociation mechanism for pH-glass electrodes, <i>J. Non-Cryst. Solids</i> 19(1975) 75.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   F. G. K. Baucke (1994). The modem understanding of the glass electrode response, <i>FreseniusJ. Anal. Chem.</i> 349: 582.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   A. Beer (1852). Bestimmung der Absorption des rothen Lichts in farbi- gen Fliissigkeiten, <i>Ann. Phys. Chem.</i> 162: 78.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   E. Biilmann (1921). Sur 1&#x2019;hydrogenation des qinhydrones, <i>Ann. Chim.</i> 15: 109.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   N. Bjerrum (1905). Uber die Elimination des Diffusionspotentials zwis- chen zwei verdiinnten wassrigen Losungen durch Einschalten einer konzen- trierter Chlorkaliumlosung, Z <i>Phys. Chem.</i> 53: 427.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   N. Bjerrum (1914). <i>Samml. chem. chem.-techn. Vortrage</i> 21: 1.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   K. Bowden (1966). Acidity functions for strongly basic solutions, <i>Chem. Revs.</i> 66: 119.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   W. Brauer (1941). Uber die Ursache des &#x201C;asymmetrischen Potentials&#x201D; von Glaselektroden, <i>Glastech. Ber.</i> 19: 268.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   J. N. Bronsted (1923). Einige Bemerkungen liber den Begriflf der Sauren und Basen, <i>Rec. Trav. Chim.</i> (4) 42: 718.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   C. Buizza, P. R. Mussini, T. Mussini, S. Rondinini (1996) Characterization of aqueous rubidium chloride as an equitransferent ultraconcentrated salt bridge, <i>J. Appl. Electrochem.</i> 26: 337.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   J. N. Butler (1964). <i>Ionic equilibrium, a mathematical approach</i>, Addison-Wesley, Reading.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   G. Charlot, R. Gauguin (1951). <i>Les methodes d&#x2019;analyse des reactions en solution</i>, Masson, Paris, p. 48.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   M. Cremer (1906). Uber die Ursache der elektromotorischen Eigen- schaften der Gewebe, zugleich ein Beitrag zur Lehre von den polyphasischen Elektrolytketten, Z <i>Biol.</i> 46: 562.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   C. W. Davies (1938). The extent of dissociation of salts in water VIII: an equation for the mean activity coefficient of an electrolyte in water, and a re-vision of the dissociation constants of some sulphates, <i>J. Chem. Soc.</i> 2093.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   C. W. Davies (1962). <i>Ion association</i>, Butterworths, London.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   P. Debye, E. Hlickel (1923). Zur Theorie der Elektrolyten, <i>Phys. Z.</i> 24: 185.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   J. W. Diggle, A. J. Parker (1974). Liquid junction potentials in electro-chemical cells involving a dissimilar solvent junction, <i>Aust. J. Chem.</i> 27: 1617.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">   R. E. Dohner, D. Wegmann, W. E. Morf, W. Simon (1986). Reference electrode with free-flowing free-diflfusion liquid junction, <i>Anal. Chem.</i> 56: 2585.<a id="page_89" class="page">Page 89, Bibliography</a></p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. E. F. Einerhand, W. H. M. Visscher, E. Barendrecht (1989). pH meas-urement in strong KOH solutions with a bismuth electrode, <i>Electrochim. Acta</i> 34: 345.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. W. Elder Jr., W. H. Wright (1928). pH measurements with the glass electrode and vacuum tube potentiometer, <i>Proc. Nat&#x2019;l Acad. Sci USA</i> 14: 936.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">S. B. Ellis, S. J. Kiehl (1933). A practical vacuum-tube circuit for the measurement of electromotive force, <i>Rev. Sci. Instrum.</i> 4: 131.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. M. Fleck (1966). <i>Equilibria in solution</i>, Holt Reinhart and Winston, New York.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">T. Forster (1950). Die pH-Abhangigkeit der Fluoreszenz von Naphtalin- derivaten, Z <i>Elektrochem.</i> 54: 531.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">E. C. Franklin (1905). Reactions in liquid ammonia, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 27: 820.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">H. Friedenthal (1904). Die Bestimmung der Reaktion einer Fliissigkeit mit Hilfe von Indikatoren, Z <i>Elektrochem.</i> 10: 113.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">H. Galster (1991). <i>pH measurement: fundamentals, methods, applications, instrumentation.</i> VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">D. E. Goldman (1943). Potential, impedance and rectification in mem-branes,^ <i>Gen. Physiol.</i> 27: 37.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">K. H. Goode (1922). A continuous-reading electrotitration apparatus, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 44: 26.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. D. Goodhue (1935). An electron tube nul-instrument for use with the glass electrode and a description of a rugged type of glass electrode, <i>Iowa State Coll. J. Sci.</i> 10: 7-15.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. Gouy (1909). Sur la constitution de la charge electrique a la surface d&#x2019;un electrolyte, <i>Compt. Rend.</i> 149: 654.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. Gouy (1910). Sur la constitution de la charge electrique a la surface d&#x2019;un electrolyte, <i>J. Phys.</i> (4) 9: 457.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">C. M. Guldberg, P. Waage (1864). Studier over Affiniteten, <i>Fork. Vi- densk. Selsk. Christiana</i> 35, reprinted in H. Haraldsen, <i>The law of mass action, a centennary volume 1864-1964</i>, Oslo (1964) 7.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">F. Haber, Z. Klemensiewicz (1909). Uber elektrische Phasen-grenzkrafte, Z <i>Phys. Chem. 67:</i> 385.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. Hagg (1940). <i>Kemisk re akt ions ldr a,</i> Geber, Uppsala; German-language edition: <i>Die theoretischen Grundlagen der analytischen Chemie</i>, Birkhauser, Basel (1950).</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. P. Hammett, A. J. Deyrup (1932). A series of simple basic indicators I: The acidity function of mixtures of sulfuric and perchloric acid with water, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 54: 2721.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. P. Hammett, A. J. Deyrup (1932). A series of simple basic indicators II: Some applications to solutions of formic acid, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 54: 4239.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. P. Hammett (1935). Reaction rates and indicator acidities, <i>Chem. Revs.</i> 16: 67.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">H. S. Hamed (1928). The electrochemistry of solutions, in H. S. Taylor, ed., <i>A treatise on physical chemistry</i>, Van Nostrand, New York, p. 782.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">H. S. Hamed, B. B. Owen (1958). <i>The physical chemistry of electrolyte solutions</i>, 2<sup>nd</sup> ed., Reinhold, New York, p. 231.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. J. Henderson (1908). Concerning the relationship between the strength of acids and their capacity to preserve neutrality, <i>Am. J. Physiol.</i> 21: 173.<a id="page_90" class="page">Page 90, Bibliography</a></p>
<p class="indent3-ka">P. Henderson (1907). Zur Thermodynamik der Fliissigkeitsketten, Z <i>Phys. Chem.</i> 59: 118.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">P. Henderson (1908). Zur Thermodynamik der Fliissigkeitsketten, Z <i>Phys. Chem.</i> 63: 325.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">D. P. Herman, K. K. Booth, O. J. Parker, G. L. Breneman (1990). The pH of any mixture of monoprotic acids and bases, <i>J. Chem. Educ.</i> 67: 501.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. H. van&#x2019;t Hoff (1877). Die Grenzebene, ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Esterbildung, <i>Ber.</i> 10: 669.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">K. Horovitz (1923). Der lonenaustausch am Dielektrikum I: die Elektro- denfiinktion der Glaser, Z <i>Phys.</i> 15: 369.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">A. Horstmann (1873). Theorie der Dissociation, <i>Ann. Chem. Pharm.</i> 170: 192.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. Janata (1987). Do optical sensors really measure pH?, <i>Anal. Chem.</i> 59: 1351.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. Jung, M. Ottnad, W. Voelter, E. Breitmaier (1972). Circulardichrois- mus- und <sup>T3</sup>C-NMR-Untersuchungen zur Dissoziation von Aminosauren, Z <i>Anal. Chem.</i> 261: 328.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">E. Kinoshita, F. Ingman, G. Edwall, S. Thulin, S. Glab (1986). Polycrys-talline and monocrystalline antimony, irridium and palladium as electrode material for pH-sensing electrodes, <i>Talanta</i> 33: 125.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1992a). <i>A spreadsheet workbook for quantitative chemical analysis</i>, McGraw-Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1992b). A simple expression for the redox titration curve, <i>J. Electroanal. Chem.</i> 323: 347.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1996). General expressions for acid-base titrations of arbitrary mixtures, <i>Anal. Chem.</i> 68: 585.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1997). <i>Principles of quantitative chemical analysis</i>, McGraw-Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1999a). Redox buffer strength, <i>J. Chem. Educ.</i> 76: 574.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1999b). Estimating parameter precision in nonlinear least squares with Excel&#x2019;s Solver, <i>J. Chem. Educ.</i> 76: 000.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">R. de Levie (1999c). <i>How to use Excel in analytical chemistry, and in general scientific data analysis</i>, Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">S. Levine, J. E. Jones (1969). Interaction of two parallel colloidal plates in an electrolyte mixture of univalent and divalent ions 1: large separation approximation, <i>KolloidZ.</i> 230: 306.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. N. Lewis, M. Randall (1921). The activity coefficient of strong elec-trolytes, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 43: 1112.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">G. N. Lewis (1923). <i>Valence and the structure of atoms and molecules</i>, Chemical Catalog Co.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">S. Licht (1985). pH measurement in concentrated alkaline solutions, <i>Anal. Chem.</i> 57: 514.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">T. S. Light, K. S. Fletcher (1985). Evaluation of the zirconia sensor at 95&#x00B0;C, <i>Anal. Chim. Acta</i> 175: 117.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">E. Linde (1927). Eine neue potentiometrische Titrieranordnung, <i>Svensk Kern. Tids.</i> 39: 285; CA 22: 2293.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">D. A. Machines, Y. L. Yeh (1921). The potentials at the junctions of monovalent chloride solutions, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 43: 2563.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">D. A. Machines, D. Belcher (1931). Further studies on the glass electrode, <i>J. Am. Chem. Soc.</i> 53: 3315.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka"><a id="page_91" class="page">Page 91, Bibliography</a>R. C. Metcalf (1987). Accuracy of Ross pH combination electrodes in dilute sulfuric acid standards, <i>Analyst</i> 112: 1573.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">W. E. Morf (1977). Calculations of liquid-junction potentials and mem-brane potentials on the basis of the Planck theory, <i>Anal Chem.</i> 49: 810.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">C. Morton (1928). The ionisation of polyhydrion acids, <i>Trans. Faraday Soc.</i> 24: 14.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">P. R. Mussini, F. D&#x2019;Andrea, A. Galli, P. Longhi, S. Rondinini (1990). Characterization and use of aqueous caesium chloride as an ultra-concentrated salt bridge, <i>J. Appl. Electrochem.</i> 20: 651.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">W. Nemst (1889). Die elektromotorische Wirksamkeit der Ionen, Z. <i>Phys. Chem</i>. 4: 129.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">M. Planck (1890). Uber die Potentialdifferenz zwischen zwei verdunnten Losungen binarer Elektrolyte, <i>Ann. Phys. Chem.</i> 40: 561.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. Polster, H. Lachmann (1989). <i>Spectrometric titrations</i>, VCH, Wein- heim.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">C. G. Pope, F. W. Gowlett (1927). A direct-reading hydrogen-ion meter, <i>J. Sci. Instrum.</i> 4: 380.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">E. R. Rang (1976). pH-computations in terms of hyperbolic functions, <i>Comp. Chem.</i> 1: 91.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. E. Ricci (1952). <i>Hydrogen ion concentration</i>, <i>new concepts in a systematic treatment</i>, Princeton Univ. Press.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">K. Schwabe, H. Dahms (1959). Versuche zur Frage der Durchlassigkeit von Glaselektroden fur Wasserstoffionen mit Hilfe von Tritium-Markierung, <i>Monatsber. Akad. Wissensch. Berlin</i> 1: 279.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">K. Schwabe, G. Glockner (1955). Uber das elektromotorische Verhalten von Glaselektroden in stark sauren Losungen, Z <i>Elektrochem.</i> 59: 504.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">F. Seel (1955). <i>Grundlagen der analytischen Chemie und der Chemie in wassrigen Systemen</i>, Verlag Chemie, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">L. G. Sillen (1959). Graphic representation of equilibrium data, in I. M. Kolthoff, P. J. Elving, E. B. Sandell, <i>Treatise on analytical chemistry</i>, part I vol. 1, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">D. D. van Slyke (1922). On the measurement of buffer values and on the relationship of buffer values to the dissociation constant of the buffer and the concentration and reaction of the buffer solution, <i>J. Biol. Chem.</i> 52: 525</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">S. P. L. Sorenson (1909). Enzymstudien II: Uber die Messung und die Bedeutung der Wasserstoffionenkonzentration in enzymatischen Prozessen, <i>Biochem.</i> Z. 21: 131.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">O. F. Tower (1896). Uber Potentialdifferenzen an den Beruhrungsflachen verdunnter Losungen, Z <i>Phys. Chem.</i> 20: 189.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">W. D. Treadwell (1925). Uber die Verwendung der Radioempfangerrohre zu elektrometrischen Titrationen, <i>Helv. Chim. Acta</i> 8: 89.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">A. Uhl, W. Kestranek (1923). Die elektrometrische Titration von Sauren und Basen mit der Antimon-Indikatorelektrode, <i>Monatsheft. Chem.</i> 44: 29.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. Waser (1967). Acid-base titration and distribution curves, <i>J. Chem. Educ.</i> 44: 274.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">J. W. Williams, T. A. Whitenack (1927). The application of the electron tube to potentiometric titrations, <i>J. Phys. Chem.</i> 31:519.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">C. J. Willis (1981). Another approach to titration curves, <i>J. Chem. Educ.</i> 58: 659.</p>
</body></html>