<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent" style="width:100%;"><a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a></p>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">This primer deals with a topic familiar to chemists, but perhaps in a non-familiar way. The traditional treatment of acid-base problems, and of titrations, uses a variety of approximations, but seldom provides the tools to evaluate under what conditions such approximations are valid, or even necessary. More importantly, the approximations are often inapplicable in the more complicated cases encountered in practice, leaving the student unprepared to handle those cases.</p>
<p class="fmindent">In this small volume we will start from the other end, by beginning with a complete graphical overview of the chemical equilibria involved. We will combine this with a simple but exact result, the proton condition, a conveniently condensed form of the mass and charge balance equations that is central to all kinds of pH problems. We then use diagrams to find appropriate approximations to solve the proton condition. This approach, pioneered by Niels Bjerrum (1914), was worked out in detail by Hagg (1940), and was propagated and further developed by Scheel (1955), Sillen (1959), and Butler (1964). It provides order-of-magnitude estimates of the concentrations of all species involved, so that one can make rational approximations, which in turn lead to more reliable answers. It provides approximate answers even in cases where the more traditional method fails completely.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Titrations dramatically illustrate the difference in approach. Traditionally, titrations are described in terms of piecemeal approximations, based on simple models that become cumbersome, increasingly inaccurate, or even inapplicable, when applied to polyprotic acids and bases, or to mixtures. Instead, we here start with exact expressions describing the entire progress of the titration. Such exact results are quite simple, and remain so as the systems involved become more complicated, thereby rendering approximations superfluous. The modem theory of titrations was developed by Butler (1964), Fleck (1966), Waser (1967), Willis (1981), and de Levie (1992b, 1996).</p>
<p class="noindent" style="width:100%;"><a id="page_vi" class="page">Page vi, Preface</a></p>
<p class="fmindent">The problems discussed in this primer can all be considered as purely mathematical, and can be treated that way, but most chemists are uncomfortable with such a chemically sterile approach. Starting from approximations is not an acceptable solution either, because they are often of limited applicability and un-certain accuracy. In this primer I have attempted to find a middle way, by reducing the mathematical difficulty to a minimum without compromising either the under-lying chemical complexity or the mathematical rigor. Graphs are used extensively to visualize the concentrations of all participants in acid-base equilibria, and as powerful aids in the computation, by illustrating the precise nature and severity of all approximations.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Almost all of the material covered in the first six chapters of this primer can also be found, in greater detail, in my Principles of Quantitative Chemical Analysis (McGraw-Hill, 1997). In this primer I have tried to reduce that material to its simplest form, in order to make it more readily available to a larger audience.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I am grateful to Mr Ming Wang and Prof W. Ronald Fawcett for their valuable suggestions. I hereby invite readers to give me the benefit of their comments and suggestions.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Chevy Chase, MD</i> <span style="float:right">R. de L.</span> <br/> May 1999</p>
</body>
</html>
