<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Summary</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_87" class="page" style="width:70%">Page 87, Summary</a>
<h1 class="h1">Summary</h1>
<p class="noindent">This primer is focused on the computation of the pH, initially simply defined as -logfl-T], and on pH titrations. For the computation of the pH, double- logarithmic graphs are used to sketch the various concentrations as a function of pH. Such graphs have mostly linear sections with simple (integer) slopes. They can be sketched rather than drawn, because they are used here merely to guide the calculation, rather than to read off specific numerical values.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">The computation is based on the proton condition, a single (though not necessarily unique) combination of the mass and charge balance relations, which can usually be written down by inspection. Often, the pH can then be obtained directly by using the graph to identify the dominant terms in the proton condition. In other cases, a quadratic equation may have to be solved. Only in relatively few instances does one need a computer to find the pH; even in those cases, the graphs already yield close estimates.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">The discussion of titration curves, in Chapter 3, is also based on the proton condition, and uses a simple master equation to describe all acid-base titrations. This treatment is clearly superior to the more traditional (and highly approximate) piecemeal approach, and readily lends itself to computer fitting of the entire titration curve.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">This is followed by short chapter on buffers, and a brief illustration of the applicability of these same approaches to other chemical equilibria.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">Chapter 6 discusses activity effects. It is placed <b><i>after</i></b> the reader has acquired a firm grasp of equilibrium calculations, so that a clear distinction can be made between balance equations (which count concentrations) and equilibrium constants (which deal with activities). The chapter includes an explicit description of how to apply activity corrections (to the level of the Davies equation) to electrometric pH measurements, including acid-base titration curves. Because there is no agreed-upon theoretical model for ionic activity coefficients beyond the reach of the Debye-Hiickel theory, ionic activities in most practical, fairly concentrated solutions remain elusive. This is why most tabulations only list ionic equilibrium constants extrapolated to infinite dilution. Fortunately, activity corrections have only a minor effect on titration curves.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">The final chapter deals with pH measurements, especially with measure-ments based on a glass and reference electrode. We encountered equilibrium (thermodynamic) potential differences that are independent of the actual mechanism involved, and non-equilibrium (extra-thermodynamic) potential differences that can be geometry-dependent. In this case, the major source of uncertainty (except in strongly basic or acidic solutions, where it can be con-siderably larger) derives from both the experimental irreproducibility and the theoretical unpredictability of the non-equilibrium potential difference across the liquid junction. This uncertainty, typically of the order of &#x00B1;0.1 pH units, certainly justifies limiting the precision of pH calculations to two decimal places, as done in this primer, where the second decimal place essentially provides a computational guard digit.</p>
</body>
</html>