<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>  Crystal defects</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="C">
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_30" class="page">Page 30, Crystal defects </a></p>


<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_C.1">
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-1em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside"><span class="drop">C</span></p>
<p class="aside" style="margin-top:-1em">Crystal defects</p></aside>
<h2 class="h2"><b>Crystal defects</b></h2>
<p class="noindent">Even a small inorganic crystal having a mass of 0.1 g is likely to have 10<sup>23</sup> ions and it would be stretching reality to think that the growth of the crystal from a solution could have occurred in such a way that no impurities or imperfections were incorporated. Of course the impurities may be removed by successive purification steps, but even in the purest crystal some structural imperfections (defects) remain. The types of defects which are commonly observed can be classified as intrinsic, which are integral to the crystal and extrinsic, which are created by the insertion of foreign ions into the lattice.</p>


<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-3em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside">Examples of compounds showing Schottky defects: MgO, CaO, and alkali metal halides</p>
<p class="aside">Examples of compounds showing Frenkel defects: CaF<sub>2</sub>, SrF<sub>2</sub>, AgCI, AgBr, (&#x03B2;-Agl, UO<sub>2</sub>, and ZrO<sub>2</sub></p>
<p class="aside"><b>Colour centres </b></p>
<p class="aside" style="margin-top:-1em"><b>F-centres</b></p>
<p class="aside" style="margin-top:-1em">Colour centres generally result from an electron trapped in an anion vacancy in alkali or alkaline earth metal halides. They may be formed by irradiation of a crystal with X or &#x03B3;- rays, or neutrons, or by heating the crystal in the vapour of an alkali or alkaline earth metal. The metal atoms diffuse into the crystal and occupy cation sites and an equal number of anion vacancies are generated. These are occupied by the electron released when the incoming metal atom is ionized. KCI becomes violet, KBr blue-green, and NaCI deep yellow. Theoretically the transitions responsible for the colour may be interpreted in terms of a particle (in this case the electron) in a box</p>
<p class="aside"><b>H-centres</b></p>
<p class="aside" style="margin-top:-1em">These are formed when the alkali metal halide is heated in the vapour of the halogen, X<sub>2</sub>. The X<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> anion occupies a single anion site</p></aside>

</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_C.1.1">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Defects which maintain the same formula (stoichiometry)</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">In an ionic crystalline material the removal of either a cation or an anion would leave a residual charge on the crystal. If the cation and anion have only a single commonly occurring oxidation state, e.g. Na<sup>&#x002B;</sup> or F<sup>-</sup>, this is energetically unfavourable. However, if oppositely charged ions are removed in a pairwise fashion then the crystal stays electroneutral. The two vacancies created in the lattice are described as <b>Schottky defects.</b> The vacancies may either coexist in adjacent sites or more probably in sites which are a longer distance apart in the lattice. Simple coulombic arrangements lead to defects being more stable when adjacent&#x2014;the tendency for these to separate depends on the dielectric constant. Specifically, ions in the first shell will tend to move away from the centres of the vacancies in order to reduce the repulsions between identically charged ions.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">Alternatively an ion may migrate from its regular lattice site into an alternative site in the lattice which is not usually occupied. The lattice relaxes to accommodate the additional interstitial atom. For this to occur a site has to be found with approximately the same dimensions and this is more likely to occur if the cation and anion have very different sizes. A close packed structure with ions of approximately equal sizes creates only small cavities between the atoms. Although the creation of the defect involves the migration of a single ion it may also be viewed as the pairwise addition of a new interstitial atom and the creation of a vacancy. These defects are described as <b>Frenkel defects</b> and may also occur in adjacent or non-adjacent sites in the lattice. The former are described as split interstitials.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka">Schottky and Frenkel defects are most commonly observed in salts of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_C.1.2">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Defects which result in changes in the formula (stoichiometry)</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">The loss of a cation or an ion may be accommodated if the remaining ion has alternative oxidation states which can subsume the charge which is generated on its removal. For example, if a compound has an initial formula MY (M &#x003D; metal, Y &#x003D; anion) it can incorporate additional anions into the structure if suitable cavities can be found for them and if the metal has an oxidized form which can balance the additional negative charges introduced. For example, if the metal is Fe<sup>II</sup> chemical knowledge suggests that the oxidation of some of the iron atoms to Fe<sup>III</sup> will compensate for the additional negative charges resulting from the introduction of additional anions. Specifically, each
<a id="page_31" class="page">Page 31, Crystal defects </a>
interstitial oxide requires two iron atoms to be oxidized from Fe<sup>II</sup> to Fe<sup>III</sup>. Alternatively, some of the metal atoms could be removed to create vacancies in the lattice if a matching number of the remaining ions increase their oxidation state to compensate for the change in charge.</p>


<p class="indent3-ka"><a href="#table_C.1">Table C.l </a>summarizes the alternative permutations observed in non- stoichiometric compounds.</p>


<p class="noindent" id="table_C.1"><b>Table C.1</b> Various formulations in which non-stoichiometric compounds are observed</p>
<table style="width:70%">
<tr><td style="border-top:2pt solid black;border-bottom:1pt solid black;text-align:center" colspan="2">Metal required to be oxidized</td><td style="border-top:2pt solid black;border-bottom:1pt solid black;text-align:center" colspan="2">Metal required to be reduced</td></tr>
<tr><td>Excess of anions, X</td><td>Metal vacancies</td><td>Excess of metal<br/>ions, M	</td><td>Anion Vacancies</td></tr>		
<tr><td>MY<sub>1&#x002B;y</sub></td><td>M<sub>1-x</sub>Y</td><td>M<sub>1+x</sub>Y</td><td>	MY<sub>1-X</sub></td></tr>


<tr><td style="border-bottom:2pt solid black">UO<sub>2&#x002B;x</sub></td><td style="border-bottom:2pt solid black">Fe<sub>l-x</sub>O</td><td style="border-bottom:2pt solid black">Zn<sub>1&#x002B;x</sub>O</td><td style="border-bottom:2pt solid black">	wo<sub>3-x</sub></td></tr></table>





<p class="indent3-ka">The extent of non-stoichiometry as defined by <i>x</i> in the general formulae above depends on a subtle interplay of structural and thermodynamic effects. Removing ions from a crystalline structure will in general result in a loss of lattice enthalpy. The pairwise nature of the electrostatic interaction between cations and anions means that this decrease will be approximately proportional to the number of ions removed providing the relaxation effects are not very great. This loss of enthalpy is compensated for by an increase in the entropic contribution to the total free energy of the system. The introduction of a vacancy into an otherwise perfect lattice increase the disorder in the system because that vacancy can be located at any one of the 10<sup>20</sup> sites in the crystal. As the number of vacancies increase they can be permuted around the structure but a maximum is reached and then the entropy contribution fails to keep pace with the enthalpic contribution. Therefore, an equilibrium concentration of defects is achieved. If the salt has a high lattice energy then the loss lattice enthalpy does not permit a large number of defects. For example, NaCl is almost defect free. However, if the lattice enthalpies are smaller then the equilibrium concentration of defects is larger. The range of defects also depends on how well the lattice is able to accommodate the vacancies and interstitial by relaxation processes. For a structure involving a high defect concentration concerted structural changes may occur throughout the lattice to reduce the consequences of the defects, e.g. by crystallographic sheer distortions.</p>



<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-35em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="aside"><b>Ionic conductivity</b></p>
<p class="aside">The creation of vacancies in a structure is analogous to producing empty peg holes in a solitaire board. Both have the effect of promoting movement. For an ionic crystal the movement of ions via vacancies leads to ionic conductivity. The activation energy required for the hopping of ions is generally quite large and consequently the ionic conductivity of most salts is much smaller than that of metallic electronic conductors. There are some fast ion conductors, e.g. &#x03B1;-Agl (above 147&#x00B0;C), RbAg<sub>4</sub>l<sub>5</sub>, CaO/ZrO<sub>2</sub>, and &#x03B2;-alumina where the activation energy is an order of magnitude smaller because the lattices have a more open structure which enables the cations to migrate to vacancies more easily</p>


<p class="aside">Non-stoichiometry can have a very dramatic effect on electronic conductivity, e.g. YBa<sub>2</sub>Cu<sub>3</sub>CO<sub>7</sub> is an insulator whereas YBa<sub>2</sub>Cu<sub>3</sub>O<sub>6.9</sub> is a superconductor with T<sub>c</sub> &#x003D; 93 K (see Band theory and Superconductors)</p>


<p class="aside">For a more detailed discussion see L. Smart and E. Moore, <i>Solid State Chemistry,</i> 2nd edn, Chapman and Hall, London, 1995 and M. T. Weller, <i>Inorganic Materials Chemistry,</i> OUP, Oxford, 1994.</p></aside>


<p class="indent3-ka">Vacancies can also be introduced into a crystal by doping it with a compound which has a different stoichiometry. For example, if CaCl<sub>2</sub> is added to NaCl each Ca<sup>2&#x002B;</sup> ion replaces two Na<sup>&#x002B;</sup> ions and a cation vacancy is created to preserve electroneutrality. These are described as extrinsic vacancies. Extrinsic anion vacancies may also be produced either by replacing X<sup>-</sup> with Y<sup>2-</sup> or M<sup>2&#x002B;</sup> by M&#x00B4;<sup>&#x002B;</sup>.</p>
</section></section>
</div></body></html>





