<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent"><i>Essentials of Inorganic Chemistry 1</i> which was published in 1995 attempted to provide a concise account of those concepts of inorganic chemistry which either should have been covered in a pre-university course or are introduced in the first year of a university course. <i>Essentials of Inorganic Chemistry 2</i> adopts the same format for topics which are generally covered in the second and third years of a degree course. The coverage of more advanced topics has necessarily led to more detailed and longer individual entries. <i>Essentials of Inorganic Chemistry 1 and 2</i> also provide the basic theoretical background for <i>Essential Trends in Inorganic Chemistry</i> which was published in 1998 and gives a very detailed account of the trends in the properties of the elements and their compounds.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I should like to thank the many colleagues who have helped me complete this book either by contributing to its production in camera ready form or reading sections of the manuscript. In particular I should like to thank John Evans who read the draft and final versions of the manuscript and who made many helpful suggestions. Bill Griffith, Paul Dyson, Brent Young, and Julian Gale read sections of the manuscript. The enormous burden of producing a camera ready version of the manuscript for OUP fell once again to Jack Barrett. I cannot thank him enough for the dedication, patience, and good humour he showed whilst completing the task. The responsibility for any inaccuracies and the subject matter remain mine alone, however. This book completes the <i>Essentials</i> trilogy and I hope not to have to bother Jack and my other colleagues for several years to come.</p>


<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine</i><span style="float:right">D. M. P. M.</span><br/>May 1998</p>
</body>
</html>
