<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Foundations of Organic Chemistry: Worked Examples</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_89" class="page" style="width:65%;">Page 89, Further reading</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="Further">
<h1 class="main">Further reading</h1>
<p class="noindent1">A number of excellent texts provide more comprehensive coverage of much of the material described here, </p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Applied homogeneous catalysis with organometallic compounds</i>, B. Comils and W. A. Herrmann, eds., VCH, Weinheim, Germany, 1996, Vols. 1 and 2.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Industrial organic chemistry</i>, K. Weissermel and H. J. Arpe, VCH, Weinheim, Germany, 3rd Ed., 1997.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Industrial organic chemicals</i>, H. A. Witcoff and B. G. Rueben, John Wiley &#x0026; Sons, New York, 1996.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Transition metals for organic synthesis</i>, M. Beller and C. Bolm, eds., Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, Germany, 1998, Vols.l and 2.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Organometallics 1 and 2</i>, M. Bochmann, Oxford Chemistry Primers, Oxford, 1994.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Homogeneous catalysis</i>, G. W. Parshall and S. D. Ittel, John Wiley &#x0026; Sons, New York, 2nd Ed., 1992.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Catalytic chemistry</i>, B. C. Gates, John Wiley &#x0026; Sons, New York, 1992.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Principles and applications of organotransition metal chemistry</i>, J. P. Collman, L. S. Hegedus and R. G. Finke, University Science Books, Mill Valley, California, 1987.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Industrial applications of organometallic chemistry and catalysis</i>, J. Chem. Ed., 1986, <b>63</b>, 188&#x2013;225.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>