<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_vi" class="page">Page vi, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The tools of science are changing. Within the past decade, computers have become as crucial in science as chemicals or spectrometers. Recently there have been even more far-reaching developments: artificial intelligence has spread to the laboratory, where it promises to have a profound effect upon scientific practice.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Several powerful techniques, which emulate human thought and reasoning, constitute the area of artificial intelligence, one of the most fascinating and exciting in science. Problems in this area abound. They may appear complex and intractable when tackled using traditional methods of solution, but artificial intelligence methods are solving them with growing success.</p>
<p class="fmindent">As these new intelligent methods expand in power, scientists are turning to them increasingly to help both in everyday tasks, and, more dramatically, to develop new scientific theory and understanding. This book provides a non- mathematical introduction to this intriguing subject and its potential. In it we investigate the nature of Artificial Intelligence, how it is applied, and how in the coming decades it will assume an increasingly fundamental role within science.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Many people contributed to this primer. My students Stephen Harris, Nats Imai, and Rob Long, and my daughter Jenny, read drafts and made many useful suggestions. John Freeman&#x2019;s excellent diagrams are a vital part of the book. The series editor Richard Compton and OUP provided expert editorial help. Above all, my wife Susie and daughter Jenny offered constant support and encouragement. I am grateful to them all.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>Oxford</i></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">H.M.C.</p></td></tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabled">June 1993</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabler">&#160;</p></td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>