<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="bibliography" id="bib">
<a id="page_90" style="width:70%;" class="page">Page 90, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="main">Bibliography</h1>
<h2 class="h2">Further reading</h2>
<p class="noindent">The following Oxford Chemistry Primers, Oxford University Press, illustrate the use of the mathematics presented here in a chemistry context.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Atomic spectra.</i> T. P. Softley (1994), OCP 19.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Computational chemistry. G.</i> H. Grant and W. G. Richards (1995), OCP 29.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Quantum mechanic I: foundations.</i> N. J. B. Green (1997), OCP 48.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Thermodynamics of chemical processes.</i> G. J. Price (1998), OCP 56.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Quantum mechanic II: the tool kit.</i> N. J. B. Green (1998), OCP 65.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">A book using the mathematics in this Primer, and written in a similar style, explaining probability and statistics in a coherent manner.</p>
<p class="hang"><i>Data analysis: a Bayesian tutorial</i>. D. S. Si via (1996),<br/>Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;<br/>A selection of more advanced books on scientific mathematics; this Primer will serve as a good introduction to them.</p>
<p class="hang"><i>Mathematical methods for physicists.</i> G. B. Arfken and H. J. Weber (1995), Academic Press, Harcourt Brace &#38; Co.</p>
<p class="hang"><i>Advanced engineering mathematics.</i> E. Kreyszig (1998), John Wiley Inc, John Wiley and Sons Ltd.</p>
<p class="hang"><i>Mathematical methods for the physics and engineering.</i> K. F. Riley, M. P. Hobson and S. J. Bence (1998), Cambridge University Press.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>