<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="frontmatter">
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain">Preface</h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Mathematics plays a central role in the life of every scientist and engineer, from the earliest school days to late on into the college and professional years. While the subject may be met with enthusiasm or reluctance, depending on individual taste, all are required to learn it to some degree at university level. This Primer begins by summarising the basic concepts and results which should have been assimilated at high school, and goes on to extend the ideas to cover the material needed by the majority of undergraduates. While the emphasis may not be on the formal proof of each statement, the conveying of a meaningful understanding of where the results come from is at the heart of the book. It&#x2019;s hoped that the informality of the tutorial style adopted will endear the text to the novice, but that its concise nature will also ensure that it&#x2019;s a useful reference.</p>
<p class="fmindent">It is our pleasure to thank several friends and colleagues who provided insightful comments on a draft of the early chapters: namely, Drs. Richard Ibberson, Robert Leese, Jerry Mayers, Jeff Penfold and David Waymont. Professor Richard Compton&#x2019;s guidance, encouragement and patience was invaluable throughout. Finally, we gratefully acknowledge the deep influence that some mentors have had on our understanding and approach to mathematics; in particular, DSS would like to mention his father for the earliest exposure, Mr. Munson for his senior school days, and Dr. Skilling while a maturing undergraduate.</p>
<p class="fmnoindenta"><i>Oxford</i><br/>January, 1999</p>
<p class="fmright1">D. S. S.<br/>S. G. R.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>