<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Stereoelectronic Effects</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="forword1"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="noindentf">Learning organic chemistry is hard work. The amount of information &#x2018;out there&#x2019; is as close to infinite as makes no difference to even the most serious student, so we need ways of making the material digestible. The best solution is to make sure that we <i>understand</i> what we learn: every serious student should try to develop a &#x2018;feel&#x2019; for the way molecules behave &#x2014; for the way they are put together and especially for the &#x2018;rules of engagement&#x2019; which operate when molecules meet and react.</p>
<p class="indentf">The good news is that very much the same basic interactions control both structure and reactivity. These are stereoelectronic interactions &#x2014; between electronic orbitals in three dimensions &#x2014; and understanding them can give us a &#x2018;feel&#x2019; for what molecules are and what they are capable of. This understanding does not have to be mathematical: my more specialised book* on the subject starts with the thought that &#x2018;a molecule&#x2019;s bonding electrons serve not only as its skeleton, but also as a rudimentary nervous system.&#x2019;</p>
<p class="indentf">This sort of &#x2018;feel&#x2019; is especially useful for thinking about reactivity. Though vast numbers of reactions are known, they fall into a quite small number of mechanistic classes. Reading this book should convince you that these familiar mechanistic classes similarly fall into a much smaller number of classes of <a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>stereoelectronic interaction. I hope that it will also encourage you to look for the underlying stereoelectronic interactions involved in every new reaction you come across. Every reaction is a real example, and the fundamental relationships involved are the key to understanding &#x2014; and predicting &#x2014; new chemistry.</p>
<p class="indentf">Stereoelectronic effects are not covered, at least by name, in most major student organic texts; though the observant reader will find evidence for them on almost every page. One general text which does treat them explicitly is: F. A. Carey and R. J. Sundberg, <i>Advanced Organic Chemistry</i>, <i>Part A, Structure and Mechanisms</i>, Plenum Press, New York and London, 1990.</p>
<p class="indentf">Two specialised texts which supplement the treatment in this Primer are: P. Deslongchamps, <i>Stereoelectronic Effects in Organic Chemistry</i>, Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1983; and *A. J. Kirby, <i>The Anomeric Effect and Related Stereoelectronic Effects at Oxygen</i>, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg and New York, 1983.</p>
<p class="noindentf">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindentf"><i>Cambridge</i></p>
<p class="noindentf">August 1995</p>
<p class="rightf">A.J.K.</p>
</body>
</html>