<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Quantum Mechanics 2: The Toolkit</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page_v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">Chemistry is the science of molecules and their transformations. Our current understanding of matter at this level is founded on the theory of quantum mechanics. This theory provides our basic picture of atomic and molecular structure, the nature of chemical bonding and the interactions of molecules with one another (intermolecular forces and chemical reactions) and with external fields and radiation (spectroscopy). The influence of quantum mechanics is not simply limited to the parts of chemistry normally identified as &#x2018;physical&#x2019;&#x2014;it is important both in inorganic chemistry (symmetry, structure, and spectroscopy) and in organic chemistry (orbital symmetry and mechanism). In addition, modern coherent spectroscopie methods, particularly NMR techniques, are essentially quantum mechanical in nature. It is important, therefore, that chemists should have a good grounding in quantum mechanics and this is recognized in most undergraduate courses.</p>
<p class="fm-in">This primer is the companion to the Oxford Chemistry Primer <i>Quantum mechanics 1: foundations</i>, which deals with the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics and the few simple cases where exact solutions can be obtained. It also introduces the methods of group theory, which are used to simplify complex multi-particle problems in the electronic structure of molecules and their energy levels.</p>
<p class="fm-in">Unfortunately most quantum mechanical problems in chemistry can not be solved exactly, so approximate methods must be used. The purpose of this primer is to describe and illustrate the application of these methods, which are used for the formulation and optimization of approximate wavefunctions. Illustrations are given, describing how approximations may be refined, and how states respond to external perturbations, such as magnetic and electric fields. There are so many important applications that a book this length can not cover them exhaustively, so in several places reference is given to longer and more advanced works.</p>
<p class="fm-in">The development in this primer uses many results derived in <i>Quantum mechanics 1</i>, cross-references are given wherever they may be helpful.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>London</i><br/>1998</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">N.J.B.G.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
</body>
</html>