<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Computers in instrumentation</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_89" class="page">Page 89, Computers in instrumentation</a></p>
<h1 class="main1">Further reading</h1>
<p class="noindent">I have found the first three books particularly helpful during the preparation of the present text. They cover virtually all the topics discussed here, often in considerably greater depth; they also provide an introduction to the elements of circuit design. The other books present other approaches to instrumentation and to electronics; they are listed alphabetically.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">P. Horowitz and W. Hill. <i>The art of electronics</i> (2nd edn). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1989.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">B. K. Jones. <i>Electronics for experimentation and research.</i> Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1986.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">H. V. Malmstadt, C. G. Enke, and S. R. Crouch.	<i>Electronics and</i></p>
         <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;"><i>instrumentation for scientists.</i> Benjamin/Cummings, Reading, MA, 1981.</p>
    <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">J. J. Brophy. <i>Basic electronics for scientists.</i> McGraw-Hill, New York, 1990.</p>
             <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">D. Buchla and W. C. McLachlan. <i>Applied electronic instrumentation and measurement.</i> Maxwell Macmillan International, New York, 1992.</p>
                      <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">A. De Sa. <i>Principles of electronic instrumentation</i> (2nd edn). Edward Arnold, London, 1990.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">P. R. Griffiths. <i>Transform techniques in chemistry.</i> Plenum Press, New York, 1978.</p>
         <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">R. L. Havill and A. K. Walton. <i>Elements of electronics for physical scientists</i> (2nd edn). Macmillan, London, 1985.</p>
    <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">L. D. Jones and A. F. Chin. <i>Electronic instruments and measurements.</i> Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1991.</p>
             <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">G. Long. <i>Real applications of electronic sensors.</i> Macmillan Education, Basingstoke, 1989.</p>
                      <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">J.C. Morris. <i>Electronics: practical applications and design.</i> Edward Arnold, London, 1989.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">T.H. O&#x2019;Dell. <i>Circuits for electronic instrumentation.</i> Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1991.</p>
         <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">P.P.L. Regtien. <i>Instrumentation electronics.</i> Prentice-Hall, London, 1992.</p>
    <p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">T.H. Wilmshurst. <i>Signal recovery from noise in electronic instrumentation.</i> Hilger, Bristol, 1990.</p>
</div></body></html>