<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Title page</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">The application of electronic instrumentation to chemical experiments has had a dramatic impact on the subject of chemistry itself. Many techniques such as NMR spectroscopy owe their existence to electronics. Others have been made simpler, more reliable, and more precise; electronic data acquisition and signal enhancement techniques permit experiments on time scales and with sensitivities that would otherwise prove impossible. Pervading all these developments in electronics has been the increasing use of computers.</p>

<p class="fmindent">A modern chemist needs to have some idea of how the instrumentation works to exploit its capabilities. This book provides an introduction to the subject by discussing the basic building blocks and techniques of the instrumentation. It is not a book about electronics itself or about detailed circuit design, although the first chapter presents a review of the basic principles. Considerable emphasis is given to the recovery of signals from noise in Chapter 5. Suggestions for further reading are given at the end of the book.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I wish to thank my colleague Pete Biggs for the enormous help he gave me in preparing all the diagrams for the book. His skilled efforts are much appreciated.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Oxford<span style="float:right">R.P.W.</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">January 1994</p>

 
</body>
</html>
