<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<title>Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Identities Over the Lifespan</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch10">
<a id="page_84" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 84, Chapter 10 Scale-up</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>10<span class="space">&#160;</span>Scale-up</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Scale-up is the process of going from laboratory preparation to whatever scale of manufacture is required to satisfy the market demand. For Fine Chemicals manufacture the scale of operation ranges from a few tonnes up to 10,000 tonnes or more per annum for a large volume agrochemical product. Vessel sizes range from 1 to 50m<sup>3</sup> or more. Process concentrations vary greatly; ideally no solvent at all is used - this is often possible when one or both of the reactants is a liquid - or else the minimum solvent is used to achieve the desired effect. When a solvent is used, the aim would be to achieve a product concentration of at least 25%, so as to maximise productivity and minimise the costs associated with solvent recovery or disposal.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-11em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Sharratt P.N., editor (1997). <i>Handbook of batch process design</i>, Blackie, London.</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The science of scale-up is concerned with ensuring that the process performance in terms of yield, quality and operability is not degraded when a process is transferred from laboratory to plant. Scale-up by a factor 10<sup>4</sup>, from 1 litre to 10 m<sup>3</sup> or more, is possible provided that the chemistry and the relevant scale-up parameters are understood. The purpose of this chapter is to describe the thought processes and procedures relevant to ensuring successful scale up.</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec10.1">
<h2 class="h2"><b>10.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Scale up concepts - why scale-up can be a problem</b></h2>
<p class="noindent">Scale up is not difficult in principle, but in practice can cause significant problems. The difficulty in practice is that, in order to identify and forestall potential problems, multiple concepts need to be linked in ways which may not be immediately obvious.</p>
<p class="indent">Earlier chapters, especially <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">5</a>, <a href="Chapter07.xhtml">7</a> and <a href="Chapter08.xhtml">8</a>, have shown that the physical properties and characteristics of reaction systems are important in determining how they behave. The larger dimensions and timescales involved in manufacturing processes mean that the parameters determining the performance of the laboratory process cannot all be reproduced at full scale. This means that, for each process which is to be scaled up, it is necessary to identify the physical factors which will change, and to consider how these will affect both the physical and chemical behaviour at full scale.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-9em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">For example, if the agitator in a scale model of the plant vessel is operated at the same rpm as full scale, then although the vessel mixing time will be correctly reproduced, the localised power input (which promotes turbulence) will not.</p>
</aside>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Some common scale-up difficulties</b></h3>
<p class="noindent" style="padding-top:0.5em;"><i>Operational (physical) problems</i></p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Extended reaction times, which can lead to by-product formation.</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Swelling or frothing of the reaction mass, which could lead to expulsion of the reaction mass from the vessel.</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Unexpected rheological characteristics causing difficulties in stirring and heat transfer.</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_85" class="page">Page 85, Chapter 10 Scale-up</a></p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Slow filtration, most often caused by the particle size being smaller than expected.</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Slow phase separations, leading to extended cycle time.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Common chemical problems</i></p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Reduced yield of product</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Increased levels of impurities</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-2em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Increased levels of impurities can adversely influence downstream processing, e.g. phase separations could become more difficult (<a href="Chapter07.xhtml">chapter 7</a>) and the crystal habit of soild products could be altered (<a href="Chapter09.xhtml">chapter 9</a>).</p>
</aside>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec10.2">
<h2 class="h2"><b>10.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Vessel dimensions</b></h2>
<p class="noindent"><a href="#tab10.1">Table 10.1</a> shows the dimensions of typical 10 m<sup>3</sup> and 50 m<sup>3</sup> vessels used for manufacture, and of a one litre vessel used for laboratory development work. The greater physical dimensions means that heat transfer, gas disengagement rates and phase separations are slower than on the small scale, and that reagent addition times and mixing times within the vessel are longer than those which are typically employed on the small scale. Some of the implications of these changes will be discussed in this chapter.</p>
<p class="tab-cap" id="tab10.1"><b>Table 10.1 </b>Dimensions at some typical vessel sizes</p>
<table class="width100b" style="margin-bottom:1em;width:44%">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="borb"><p class="tab-l">Vessel working volume, m<sup>3</sup></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="borb"><p class="tab-l">50</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="borb"><p class="tab-l">10</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="borb"><p class="tab-l">10<sup>&#x2013;3</sup></p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">liquid depth/m</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">5.2</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">2.2</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">0.13</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">radius/m</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">1.75</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">1.2</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tab-l">0.05</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec10.3">
<h2 class="h2"><b>10.3<span class="space">&#160;</span>Effect of scale on physical parameters</b></h2>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Timescales</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Several factors combine to ensure that batch processing timescales are extended as the scale is increased. For example, reagent additions take longer; heat transfer is more difficult, because the surface area/volume ratio is much lower; phase separation times are increased because of the greater depth of solution; and filtration times can be longer because filter cake depths are greater.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-6em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">To fill a 10 m<sup>3</sup> vessel via a 5 cm diameter pipe would typically take 2hr.</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Heat transfer</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Scale-up from 1 litre to 10 m<sup>3</sup> involves a reduction in the surface area to volume ratio of 22.5 for geometrically equivalent vessels. Heat transfer rates are correspondingly reduced. For equipment using a similar heating or cooling fluid at the same temperature difference between reaction mass and heat transfer fluid, this means that reactions which are heat transfer limited will take many times longer on the full scale. Implications for reactant and product stability over the extended processing times need to be considered. The need to speed up heat transfer may lead to the use of greater extremes of temperature at heat transfer surfaces, which could cause decomposition of materials being processed.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-8em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">The calculation assumes cylindrical vessels with a flat bottoms; dimensions as in <a href="#tab10.1">Table 10.1</a></p>
</aside>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-2em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Processes in which the overall processing time is determined by the rate of supply or removal of heat are described as &#x2018;heat transfer limited.&#x2019;</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">A further cause for concern is me possibility or exothermic reactions becoming uncontrollable because of the inability to remove heat at a sufficient rate. An accumulation of unreacted starting materials can become <a id="page_86" class="page">Page 86, Chapter 10 Scale-up</a>extremely hazardous if, when reaction does initiate, it cannot be controlled. This could occur because the reaction temperature is initially too low, or because of some chemical inhibition of a catalysed process. These considerations are a major factor in favour of the &#x2018;semi-batch&#x2019; operating conditions which are so widely used. Avoidance of dangerous exotherms is achieved by the controlled addition of one or more reactants, with some means of checking that reaction is occurring as the addition proceeds. This may not have to be a chemical analysis; monitoring the heat output may be an adequate method of ensuring safety.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Two-phase systems</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">This topic has been covered in <a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>. Problems are exacerbated at the large scale because specific power inputs are usually less than on the laboratory scale. Reactor configuration is crucial. An appropriate agitator and baffling must be used (<a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>). Problems can easily arise when ad-hoc equipment is used which is inappropriate for the required duty.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-5em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">For example, an &#x2018;anchor&#x2019; agitator is almost always an inappropriate choice where two-phase systems are involved, because it will not generate adequate interfacial area.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Suspension of solids</i></p>
<p class="noindent">As a minimum, in order to achieve reproducibility, there should be no solid permanently residing on the vessel base. Agitation above that necessary to achieve this is unlikely to be beneficial.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Contacting of immiscible liquids</i></p>
<p class="noindent">To achieve reproducibility the process should be designed to give a similar interfacial area (drop size) on laboratory and full scale. Reasons for this have been discussed in <a href="Chapter08.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>, and the means of designing for this have been outlined in <a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>. It may be important to control which phase is dispersed, and to avoid phase inversions (<a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>).</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Phase separation</i></p>
<p class="noindent">In an unstirred vessel phase separation times are roughly proportional to the liquid depth, which may well be up to 50 times larger at full scale <i>vs</i> the laboratory. In laboratory work phase disengagement times of less than a minute should be sought. Again, attention to phase continuity is essential Small quantities of surface active agents can have a major influence on phase separation rates, by inhibiting droplet coalescence.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Gas disengagement</i></p>
<p class="noindent">For a reaction which generates gas, the rate of formation of gas is proportional to volume, but the rate of gas disengagement is proportional to surface area. Since the surface area : volume ratio decreases with scale, the proportion of gas held up as bubbles in the liquid phase increases. If this factor is not properly considered then the swell may be sufficient to expel some of the batch from the vessel. The scale up parameter is the superficial velocity of the gas phase. An escape superficial velocity of about 0.1 m s<sup>-1</sup> is the maximum practicable, above which serious swelling of the liquid will occur, and a two-phase liquid vapour mixture may be carried into the upper works of the vessel. If surface active materials are present, the <a id="page_87" class="page">Page 87, Chapter 10 Scale-up</a>maximum practicable superficial velocity could be much less, due to frothing of the liquid.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-15em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Superficial gas velocity is the mean gas velocity above the solution, in other words, the volumetric gas flow rate divided by the cross sectional area of the vessel.</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">A common situation is the neutralisation of acids with bicarbonates. Generation of CO<sub>2</sub> may not be a problem on the small scale, but can become so as the scale is increased, because the surface area : volume ratio is much less at manufacturing scale, so that the gas cannot escape at the same rate.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Rheology</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">For Newtonian fluids, scale up does not introduce any problems derived from rheology. For other types of fluid, particularly those which show shear thinning, difficulties can arise because of the wide variation in shear rate in a large vessel. Such a fluid may effectively set solid in low shear regions away from the agitator, leading to heat and mass transport problems. Unexpected increases in viscosity can lead to swelling of the vessel contents by reducing gas disengagement rates.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-5em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar">See <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">chapter 5</a></p>
</aside>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Distillation</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Distillations at the full scale tend to be more difficult than on the small scale. One reason can be that it is difficult to eliminate reflux on the laboratory scale even in a simple Claisen head, and thus there may be two or three theoretical plates of separation where none was intended. An over-optimistic view of the ease of separation may be obtained. To avoid this the uplift should be heated to above the boiling point of the distillate.</p>
<p class="indent">Distillation rates are usually limited by the ability to input heat to the vessel contents. Because of the reduced surface area to volume ratio on the full scale, distillations can therefore take much longer. This may lead to chemical selectivity problems if reactants are unstable.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec10.4">
<h2 class="h2"><b>10.4<span class="space">&#160;</span>Chemical selectivity issues</b></h2>
<p class="noindent">Factors which commonly influence chemical selectivity include the following:</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Processing times, which are frequently extended on the large scale.</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Mixing time</p>
<p class="blist">&#x2022;<span class="space">&#160;</span>Interfacial area in two-phase reactions</p>
<p class="noindent">Often problems are caused by interaction of the chemistry of the process with</p>
<p class="noindent">physical variables. A useful principle to remember where a chemical stage is</p>
<p class="noindent">involved is that</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>chemical rate constants are scale independent, whereas most related</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>physical processes are not</i>.</p>
<p class="noindent">This is the primary cause of the failure to identify scale-up problems associated with chemical selectivity. An understanding of the nature of any alternative reaction pathways is essential to achieving secure scale-up. Several examples of competing reaction pathways are given at the beginning of <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-16em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Hoyle W., editor (1998). <i>Pilot plant and scale-up of chemical processes I J</i> Royal Society of Chemistry, London.</p>
</aside>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 88, Chapter 10 Scale-up</a>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Timescales</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Probably the commonest cause of reduced selectivity on scale up is the instability of either reactants or product over the longer timescale needed for processing on the full scale. This factor is easily checked, so that appropriate action can be taken. If <i>reactants</i> are unstable under processing conditions then the usual solution is to add those which are unstable to the reaction mass under conditions chosen to maximise the selectivity. <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> gives some examples of aspects to consider. More difficult are the cases where the <i>product or an intermediate</i> is unstable. In extreme cases the reactor configuration may be dictated by the need for a short residence time. Again, <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> gives examples. It may be possible to remove a product continuously by distillation.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-11em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Prior to scale-up processes should always be trialled in the laboratory using the same timescales as will be enforced by plant requirements.</p>
</aside>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-3em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">A well known laboratory example is the preparation of acetaldehyde by oxidation of ethanol, where the product (b.p. 21 &#x00B0;C) is removed as it is formed.</p>
</aside>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Mixing effects in pseudo-homogeneous systems</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">This topic has been discussed in <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>. Because power inputs per unit volume are much less on the large scale, and vessel mixing times longer, mixing effects are more pronounced. Neutralisation of an acid catalyst in an ester at the end of an esterification process is discussed in <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>.</p>
<p class="indent">It is always useful to ask the question &#x2018;what would happen if the order of addition of reagents were reversed?&#x2019; Although there may be no intention to do this, any serious negative concern generated should lead to a more detailed consideration of possible mixing problems.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-8em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">For example, when a mono-nitration product is requred in a process where dinitration is rapid, the order of addition would always be nitric acid into substrate. This should trigger a warning that dinitration cot;/&#x00FB;foccur in mixing transients (See <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>).</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">A userul empirical test to determine whether macromixing effects will impair selectivity on scale up is to carry out the process in a geometrically identical model of the equipment, with the agitator running at the same speed as the full scale, and the reagents added over the same timescale. This will provide a bulk circulation time approximately equal to full scale, and will show up any problems due to that particular parameter. Other factors will not be mimicked e.g. suspension of solids or dispersion of two-phase systems, so this test must be used with care.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-5em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="sidebar" style="text-align:left;">Agitator speeds at full scale are in the range 30&#x2013;120 rpm. These appear unrealistically low on the laboratory scale.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Two phase reactions</i></p>
<p class="noindent">Two phase reactions are particularly difficult to scale up because the number of factors which need to be controlled is considerably greater than for single phase systems. The most important scale-up parameter is the interfacial area. All two-phase reactions show a rate dependence on interfacial area; whether or not the chemical selectivity is affected depends on how the rates of competing reactions are influenced by mass transfer rates. In order to ensure satisfactory scale up it is necessary to identify any competing chemistry and then to consider how this chemistry may be affected by changes in mass transfer rates. Some examples are given in <a href="Chapter08.xhtml">Chapter 8</a>.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec10.5">
<h2 class="h2"><b>10.5<span class="space">&#160;</span>Summary</b></h2>
<p class="noindent">It has been the intention of this brief Chapter to show in qualitative terms the principles involved in scale up from laboratory to full scale manufacture. It is an area where there are great synergies to be gained from interdisciplinary working between chemists and chemical engineers.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>