<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Aquatic Environmental Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page_v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">Environmental chemistry courses have become an increasingly popular option in degree programmes throughout the world. The reasons for their introduction, whilst diverse, are underpinned by a growing awareness of environmental problems and a desire to understand the behaviour of natural and polluted systems. From the viewpoint of an educator, the environmental link can sometimes provide a valuable boost to a student who can gain inspiration from the reality of the subject.</p>
<p class="fm-in">This book has been written to provide an introduction to equilibrium inorganic chemistry by drawing upon examples from the aquatic environment. It is designed for readers having the levels of basic chemical and mathematical ability generally expected of university entrants. In most UK degree structures it will be seen to cover first year material for students studying chemistry, environmental science, geology, irrigation science, and oceanography.</p>
<p class="fm-in">This is a basic introductory text which attempts to cover the underlying properties of both freshwater and marine systems without placing a particular emphasis on either. Two aspects have been deliberately compromised because of the size and level of the book. First, this is a text on equilibrium inorganic chemistry. Whilst it is recognized that a large number of aquatic systems are not at equilibrium, the level of confusion that can be induced by the simultaneous presentation of equilibrium and kinetic treatments would not be justifiable for the <a id="page_vi" class="page">Page_vi, Preface</a>target readership. The second compromise arises from whether the concept of activities should be covered in any detail. In general the book employs concentrations, and not activities, but where the concentration/activity problem arises it is commented upon.</p>
<p class="fm-in">The format adopted for the book consists of two parallel columns. The inner column is the main body of the book and the reader should not need to use the outer column at all to cover the main material. The outer column provides secondary material such as reminders or comments and is sometimes employed to lead the reader through what, to some, might be a tricky derivation.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>Southampton</i><br/>December 1997</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">A. G. H.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>