<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_89" class="page" style="width:60%;">Page 89, Further reading</a>

<h1 class="h1">Further reading</h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>General</b> <i>Biological chemistry of the elements</i>, da Silva, J. J. R. F. and Williams, R. J. P. (1991). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Inorganic biochemistry</i>. Cowan, J. A. (1993). VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Principles of bioinorganic chemistry</i>. Lippard, S. J. and Berg, J. M. (1994). University Science Books, Mill Valley, California.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Bioinorganic chemistry</i>. Kaim, W. and Schwederski, B. (1994). Wiley, NY. <i>Biochemistry</i>. Stryer, L. (1995). Freeman, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Biochemistry</i>. Voet, D. and Voet, J. G. (1995). Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 2</b> Structural aspects of metal liganding to functional groups in proteins. Glusker, J. P. (1991). <i>Advances in Protein Chemistry</i>, <b>42</b>, 1-76. <i>Biocoordination chemistry</i>. Fenton, D. E. (1995). Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 3</b> Metallobiochemistry. <i>Methods in Enzymology</i>, Volumes <b>158A</b>, <b>205</b>, <b>226 and 227</b> (ed. J. F. Riordan and B. L. Vallee) Manipulations and spectroscopic characterization of metalloproteins.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 4</b> Lectin&#x2013;carbohydrate complexes of plants and animals. Sharon, N. (1993). <i>Trends in Biochemical Sciences</i>, <b>18</b>, 221&#x2013;30.</p>
<p class="noindent">Zinc fingers. Rhodes, D. and Klug, A. (1993). <i>Scientific American</i>, <b>268</b>, (2), 32&#x2013;9.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 5</b> Calcium in biological systems. Fors&#x00E9;n, S. and K&#x00F6;rdel, J. (1994). In <i>Bioinorganic chemistry</i>, (ed. I. Bertini, H. B. Gray, S. J. Lippard and J. S. Valentine). University Science Books, Mill Valley, California, pp. 107&#x2013;66. This is one of nine authoritative articles.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 6</b> Why do we age? Rusting, R.L. (1992). <i>Scientific American</i>, <b>267</b>, (12), 131-41.</p>
<p class="noindent">Iron&#x2013;sulfur proteins, (ed. R. Cammack and A. G. Sykes) (1992). <i>Advances in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, Vol. 38.</p>
<p class="noindent">Electron transfers in chemistry and biology. Marcus, R. A. and Sutin, N. (1985). <i>Biochimica et Biophysica Acta</i>, <b>811</b>, 265&#x2013;322.</p>
<p class="noindent">Electron tunneling in proteins. Langen, R., Chang, I.J., Germenas, J.P., Richards, J.H., Winkler, J.R. and Gray, H.B. (1995) <i>Science</i>, <b>268</b>, 1733&#x2013;35.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 7</b> <i>Trace element medicine and chelation therapy</i>. Taylor, D. M. and Williams, D.R. (1995). Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge. Transition metals in control of gene expression. Halloran, T.V. (1993). Science, <b>261</b>, 715-24.</p>
<p class="noindent">Clinical aspects of platinum anticancer drugs. Rosenberg, B. (1980). <i>Metal Ions in Biological Systems</i>, <b>11</b>, Chapter 3.</p>
<p class="noindent"><b>Chapter 8</b> Bioinorganic reactions of nitric oxide underly diverse roles in living systems. Rawls, R. (1996). <i>Chemical and Engineering News</i>, May 6, 38-42.</p>
<p class="noindent">Inorganic chemistry and drug design. Sadler, P.J. (1991). <i>Advances in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, <b>36</b>, 1-48 (also Chapters 5 and 7).</p>

</body>
</html>