<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Foundations of Organic Chemistry: Worked Examples</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<section id="preface" epub:type="chapter">
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface Inorganic Chemistry in Biology</a>

<h1 class="chaptitle">Preface</h1>
<p class="noindent" style="width:100%;">The recent flood of bioinorganic chemistry texts attests to the vitality and significance of the subject. We thought that a primer could be very useful to senior undergraduates and postgraduate students, as well as being a refresher for research practitioners.</p>
<p class="indent" style="width:100%;">The principles of metallobiomolecule construction and behaviour are covered concisely in the first four chapters. Dave Fenton &#x2019;s book in this series, &#x2018;Biocoordination Chemistry&#x2019;, treats this aspect in greater detail and can serve as a complementary text. The bulk of the book is descriptive inorganic chemistry dealing with the import in biology of about thirty elements from the s-, d- and p-blocks of the periodic table. We have tried, where possible, to relate the chemistry to the environment, agricultural problems, clinical use and health and the often unique and fascinating behaviour of a range of critters. We decided, after much thought, to omit all references to individual scientists. Their names can be found in text books and the scientific literature.</p>
<p class="indent" style="width:100%;">John Evans, Mike Johnson and Lynn and Frank Guziec read the manuscript and made helpful comments. Steve Tate was a tower of strength with computer advice. The staff at OUP were extremely helpful during the various stages in the production of the book. All these people have our heartfelt thanks.</p>
<p class="indent" style="width:100%;">Finally, we dedicate this book to Sue, C.W., Keith, Dan, Linda and Kell with all our love.</p>

<table style="width:100%;margin-top:1em;">
<tr>
<td><i>Kenilworth<br/>Warwickshire</i><br/>August 1996</td>
<td style="text-align:left;padding-left:39.8em;width:100%;">P. C. W.<br/>R. G. W.</td>
</tr>
</table>

</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>