<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 1, Chapter00 Introduction</a>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch00"> 
<h1 class="ch-title">0<span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h1>
<p class="noindent">Quantum mechanics is a subject of central importance in chemistry. The chemist&#x2019;s approach to the understanding of matter and its chemical transformations is to take a microscopic view, connecting experimental observation with the properties of the constituent molecules. However, at the microscopic scale atoms and molecules and their constituent particles do not obey the familiar laws of mechanics that pertain in the everyday macroscopic world. For example, the existence of molecular line spectra indicates that molecules can be found only at certain well-defined energies, unlike objects at our own scale, such as tennis balls, whose energy appears to be continuously variable.</p>
<p class="indent">The aims of this primer and its companion are threefold:</p>
<p class="nlist">1.<span class="space">&#160;</span>to explain the fundamentals of quantum mechanics from the point of view of chemistry;</p>
<p class="nlist">2.<span class="space">&#160;</span>to describe the areas of chemistry where quantum mechanics is most important;</p>
<p class="nlist">3.<span class="space">&#160;</span>to show how quantum mechanics is applied to chemical problems.</p>
<p class="indentt">The coverage is divided between two primers: the first deals with the foundations of the subject, concentrating on exactly soluble problems and methods for reducing complicated problems to simple formulations. The second part is a toolkit for applying quantum mechanics to chemical problems, and therefore concentrates on approximate methods. Part II will be referred to as II wherever appropriate.</p>
<p class="indent">The presentation is aimed at students in the later years of a chemistry degree; it is intermediate in difficulty between Atkins&#x2019; <i>Physical chemistry</i> and <i>Molecular quantum mechanics.</i> Sections and problems which are more demanding are specifically identified. Quantum mechanics is by nature a mathematical theory: it is not possible either to develop or to use it without a certain amount of mathematics. We shall attempt to keep more advanced maths to a minimum. However, the reader is assumed to be familiar with the contents of a typical introductory <i>Mathematics for chemists</i> course, and any further concepts will be explained as and where they are needed.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>