<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Foundations of Organic Chemistry: Worked Examples</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch00">
<a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 1, Chapter 00 Introduction</a>
<h1 class="ch-title1"><span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h1>
<p class="noindent">A large part of the fascination of inorganic chemistry lies in the almost infinite variety and diversity of the compounds which the elements form amongst themselves. Ionic solids, covalent molecules, metals and alloys, ceramics and polymers are all examples of the types of materials encountered, and nowhere is this diversity more apparent than in the chemistry of the main group elements of the s- and p-blocks, the topic with which this book is concerned. Nevertheless, whilst variety and diversity are fascinating on the one hand, on the other, it may sometimes seem that main group chemistry is little more than a vast collection of disparate facts which can only be dealt with by some monumental feat of memory.</p>
<p class="indent">The object of this book is to show that much of the huge body of knowledge which is s- and p-block chemistry can be understood and rationalized on the basis of a few simple and straightforward principles. We start in <a href="Chapter01.xhtml">Chapter 1</a> with an overview of ideas on atomic structure which lead to an understanding of why the periodic table has the form that it does. The periodic table is the single most important organizing principle in inorganic chemistry and an understanding of its structure is crucial if we are ever to understand the periodic relationships between the properties of the elements and their compounds.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="Chapter02.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> deals with the periodic aspects of some of the properties of the atoms themselves such as ionisation energies and electronegativity, the latter principle in terms of a possible third dimension to the periodic table. The trends in all of these properties are seen to be closely related and form a foundation upon which we can build an understanding of the nature of the elements themselves, which is the subject of <a href="Chapter03.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>.</p>
<p class="indent"><a href="Chapter04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> looks at some of the important general features associated with the compounds of the elements such as oxidation states, bond energies and the physical nature of the compounds themselves, such as whether they are ionic, molecular covalent, polymeric or metallic. This provides a basis to explore, in <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>, the specific nature of selected classes of compound, such as the halides, oxides and hydrides, and the factors which determine why these compounds have the characteristics they do. In all cases, the emphasis is on observed periodic trends and the reasons behind why such trends occur.</p>
<p class="indent">In <a href="Chapter06.xhtml">Chapter 6</a> we look at the concept of acids and bases and finally in <a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>, at some aspects of structure. A bibliography is provided at the end and, in many ways, this text should be read in conjunction with some of these books since there has not been space enough to provide much in the way of factual information or descriptive chemistry.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>