<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Chemistry of the First-row Transition Metals</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="fm-no">The s- and p-blocks comprise the most abundant elements and thus are of great relevance as well as fundamental importance. This &#x2018;Main Group&#x2019; chemistry covers a wide variety of materials&#x2014;from inert gases to the most reactive of alkali metals, including some finer points of the trends between germanium, gallium, and indium in between. These gross and subtle changes often give students problems as they seek to come to grips with these important elements. The theme of this book is to provide a framework for understanding these elements.</p>
<p class="fm-in">Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually be covered in an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as giving up-to-date information, this series provides explanations and rationales that form the framework of understanding inorganic chemistry. Nick Norman builds on his earlier volume on the p-block elements and extends his coverage to include the alkali and alkaline earth elements. He uses the intrinsic atomic properties to account for the breadth of the chemistry of these elements.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">John Evans</p>
<p class="fmattribute1"><i>Department of Chemistry</i>, <i>University of Southampton</i></p>
</body>
</html>