<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Solvents other than water are widely used by chemists. Undergraduate chemistry courses usually devote some time to discussing chemistry in non-aqueous solvents. Comprehensive undergraduate texts are usually limited in their coverage of the topic, and it is necessary to consult both inorganic and organic source books to get a more complete view of non-aqueous solvents. This primer was written to draw together the chemistry of non-aqueous solvents at a level suitable for undergraduates. It is specially suitable to accompany a module on non-aqueous solvents as found in many UK university chemistry courses. I hope it will also provide a useful short account of the subject for all chemists who use non-aqueous solvents in their work.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to thank John Shorter and Peter Nelson who read the manuscript and made very helpful suggestions for improvements. Finally, I would like to dedicate this book to my wife, Barbara, for her love, encouragement, and support.</p>
<table class="table1" style="margin-left:0em;width:100%;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Hull</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">J. R. C.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:85%;">August 1998</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>