<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Sample</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fm-noindent">As the reaction media of much chemistry, solvent systems require to be understood before any rationale syntheses can be developed. The ranges of acidity and redox potentials determine their compatibility with desired reagents and products. Similarly, their solvation properties govern whether these reagents can even enter the solvent to any appreciable extent. The varied behaviour of non-aqueous solvents extend the definitions of acidity and basicity.</p>
<p class="fm-indent">Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually form an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as providing up-to-date information, this series expresses the explanations and rationales that form the framework of current understanding of inorganic chemistry. John Chipperfield relates the concepts and details of solvent systems in a highly informative way. Whether used with a specific course on non-aqueous solvents, or as a companion text to much descriptive and practical chemistry, this book provides excellent guidance for both undergraduates and postgraduates.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">John Evans</p>
<p class="fmattribute1"><i>Department of Chemistry</i>,<br/><i>University of Southampton</i></p>
</body>
</html>