<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>NMR Spectroscopy in Inorganic Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_87" class="page">Page 87, Bibliography</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="Biblio">
<h1 class="chaptitle">Bibliography</h1>
<table style="margin-top:20px;width:100%;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width:20%"/>
<col style="width:80%"/>
</colgroup>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Hoare, P.J. (1995)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Nuclear Magnetic Resonance</i>, Oxford University Press, Oxford.<br/>An introduction to the theory of NMR - a companion volume to this text.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Harris, R. K. (1986)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy</i>, Longman, London.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Akitt, J. W. (1992)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Chemistry</i>, Chapman &#x0026; Hall, London.<br/>Two good introductions to modern NMR spectroscopy.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="padding-top:10px;">Fukushima, E. and Roederer, S.B.W. (1981)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>&#x00A0;</td>
<td><i>Experimental Pulse NMR</i> - <i>a nuts and bolts approach</i>, Addison-Wesley, <br/>Advanced Book Program, Reading (Mass.)<br/>A user friendly introduction to pulse NMR - and a guide to building your own<br/>spectrometer!</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Abragam, A. (1978)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>The principles of nuclear magnetism</i>, Clarendon Press, Oxford.<br/>The NMR theorists &#x201C;bible&#x201D; - not for the faint hearted!</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="padding-top:10px;">Harris, R. K. and Mann, B. E. (1978)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>&#x00A0;</td>
<td><i>NMR and the Periodic Table</i>, Academic Press, London.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Mason, J. ed (1987)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Multinuclear NMR</i>, Plenum Press, London.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Laszlo, P. ed (1983)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>NMR of newly accessible nuclei</i>, Academic Press, New York.<br/>Three invaluable reference texts for the inorganic chemist.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="2" style="padding-top:10px;">Brevard, C. and Granger, P. (1981)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>&#x00A0;</td>
<td><i>Handbook of High Resolution Multinuclear NMR</i>, Wiley Interscience, Chichester.<br/>A valuable compilation of NMR data.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Derome, A. E. (1987)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Modern NMR techniques for chemistry research</i>, Pergamon, Oxford.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Freeman, R. (1997)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Spin Choreography</i>, Spektrum Academic Publishers, Oxford.<br/>Two excellent reference texts dealing with all aspects of NMR spectroscopy with good sections on multiple pulse and 2-D methods.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Mann, B. E. (1986)</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Fluxionality of polyene andpolyenyl metal complexes</i>, Chem. Soc. Rev., 1986, <b>15</b>, 167, Royal Society of Chemistry, London.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;padding-top:10px;">Fyfe, C. A.</td>
<td style="padding-top:10px;"><i>Solid State NMR for Chemists</i>, C.F.C. Press, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.<br/>An excellent introduction to NMR in the solid state.</td>
</tr>
</table>
</section>
</body>
</html>