<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>NMR Spectroscopy in Inorganic Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="series">
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<p class="indent">&#160;</p>
<p class="indent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="chaptitle">Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</h1>
<p class="noindentf">Nuclear magnetic resonance is one of the most important techniques in chemistry for structure elucidation. Most text books are written either from a fundamental, physical viewpoint, or oriented towards the applications in organic chemistry. The importance of NMR in inorganic chemistry cannot be overestimated, and this area requires understanding aspects of NMR that occur less commonly in organic chemistry: quadrupolar nuclei, satellites, fluxional behaviour and solid state effects. This Primer is aimed at that gap. Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually form an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as providing up-to-date information, this series expresses the explanations and rationales that form the framework of current understanding of inorganic chemistry.</p>
<p class="indentf">Jon Iggo has used his substantial experience in developing the application of NMR in inorganic and organometallic chemistry to provide a good grounding in NMR in inorganic systems. This provides readers at both the undergraduate and postgraduate level with an approachable introduction to this field that will be of continuing assistance.</p>
<p class="right">John Evans<br/><i>Department of Chemistry,<br/>University of Southampton</i></p>
</section>
</body>
</html>