<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Chemistry of the First-row Transition Metals</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This short book is intended for students who have had at least one year&#x2019;s basic introduction to the concepts of transition metal chemistry. It is based on several excellent earlier Primers, overlapping slightly with and extending their expos&#x00E9; of this fascinating area of inorganic chemistry. Parts of this book are also intended as a taster for later, deeper studies.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Where possible, I have tried to show where a knowledge of structure and theory can amplify and explain experimental observation &#x0028;the facts&#x0021;&#x0029;. Inevitably, in a text of this kind, there will be omissions and mistakes. For the former I apologise by excusing myself on the grounds of limitation in length &#x0028;96 pages in total, including the preface, index, etc.&#x0029;. For the latter I take full responsibility.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to thank Mike Ward for some very useful general discussions, and I am especially grateful to Rowena Paul and Zoe Reeves for detailed criticisms and comments, both scientific and grammatical.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Now I truly understand the humble dedications to long-suffering families in the prefaces of so many textbooks. My wife Dianne has shown almost superhuman patience as this work was completed, and for that I am profoundly grateful.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<table class="table1" style="margin-left:0em;width:100%;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Bristol</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">J. A. McC.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">July 1998</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>