<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch01">
<a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 1, Introduction</a>
<h1 class="main">1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Chemistry is an experimental subject. That truism was self-evident historically, but during the past two decades it has ceased to be valid. In many areas of chemistry, theoretical prediction of chemical properties can rival experimental measurement. The choice of whether to find the structure of a molecule, its bond lengths and bond angles, by experimental spectroscopy or x-ray crystallography or by computation may come down to one of convenience or cost.</p>
<p class="indent">Cost is an important factor. Unlike in almost every other area of human existence, the costs of computing have fallen steadily over the years while at the same time the power in terms of hardware and software has grown and grown. This has encouraged first of all theoretical chemists and later physical, organic and inorganic chemists to use computational techniques. Frequently this is done by using standard packages which are akin to pieces of experimental apparatus. They may be treated almost like &#x2018;black boxes&#x2019;, as may NMR spectrometers. Like the latter, however, the best and most reliable results come from workers who understand how the &#x2018;black box&#x2019;, the computer program, works and the strengths and weaknesses of the techniques.</p>
<p class="indent">A sub-discipline of computational chemistry has grown up. This topic is distinct from theoretical chemistry. The activity involves taking known theory and developing the computer software to solve chemical problems. Very rapidly the areas of application have grown with, for example, many computational chemists being employed in industry, particularly the pharmaceutical industry.</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.1">
<h2 class="h2">1.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Hardware</h2>
<p class="noindent">Computer hardware extends from personal computers, through workstations and mainframe machines to supercomputers and massively parallel devices. Computational chemistry is performed on all of these platforms with the obvious restriction that the bigger the problem, in terms of the size of molecule or the numbers of molecules involved, the more power or computer time required.</p>
<p class="indent">Although personal computers can be used to visualize molecules, displaying graphical representations, calculations beyond this level are somewhat restricted. Workstations which cost of the order of &#x00A3;10,000, by contrast can be used for almost the entire range of computational chemistry. Such machines have a large amount of memory and are often joined <i>via</i> ethernet links to other computers. An arrangement of this type is currently the favoured option of many practitioners, particularly those involved in industrial research. They may have as much power as the larger mainframe machines which are more likely to be found in central facilities, rather than <a id="page_2" class="page">Page 2, Introduction</a>on an individual chemist&#x2019;s desk. Workstations also have the attraction of not requiring air-conditioned surroundings or the presence of dedicated support staff.</p>
<p class="indent">Supercomputers have been defined as machines which cost more than &#x0024;10 million and represent the top end of the scale of computational power. They are necessary for the biggest problems, particularly if many millions of integrals have to be performed or if the system being studied comprises many thousands of molecules. Computational chemists are amongst the largest users of supercomputer time and to serve their needs a number of the world&#x2019;s leading industrial companies have become the owners of the most powerful machines.</p>
<p class="indent">Computational chemistry is also seen as the application area for which many of the more novel types of computer architecture have been developed. Above all, these recent advances, such as the transputer, are designed to run many calculations in parallel rather than sequentially. A large part of the work within computational chemistry is ideally suited to such an approach.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.2">
<h2 class="h2">1.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Software</h2>
<p class="noindent">Many computational chemists are users of big packages; sophisticated programs developed to do a particular task. Most of these programs have been written in FORTRAN although graphical programs are increasingly written in &#x2018;C&#x2019;. The programs are often very large, perhaps several hundred thousand lines of code. Clearly no single individual writes such a program. Rather they have grown as generations of users have added new functionality or expanded options. Great care has generally been taken to simplify input and output, particularly with the use of graphics. As a result it may be possible to do a great deal of computational chemistry without writing code. Computational chemists who like writing programs do occasionally write a novel program from scratch, but more typically they adapt or extend the capabilities of existing software. For a student of computational chemistry the progression is akin to becoming an expert with motor cars. First, one must learn how to run a big package &#x2013; like learning to drive. Secondly, faults have to be detected and put right. As the student becomes more confident it becomes possible to modify the program so as to improve performance, perhaps cannibalizing bits from other programs; building special routines. Ultimately one can build one&#x2019;s own program, but using ready-made components in the form of sub-routines or sections of other people&#x2019;s code. It is virtually never necessary to start with a blank sheet of paper and compose a totally new program.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.3">
<h2 class="h2">1.3<span class="space">&#160;</span>Areas of application</h2>
<p class="noindent">The range of applications of computational chemistry grows by the month, but the main classes of problem which can be resolved by computer are summarised here with further details given in later chapters.</p>
<a id="page_3" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 3, Introduction</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.3.1">
<h3 class="h3">Single molecule calculations</h3>
<p class="noindent">Calculations on a single molecule can give information about the most stable geometry of the molecule; its bond lengths and angles. Barriers to internal rotation round single bonds and conformational information can equally come from these calculations as can vibrational frequencies; electron distribution; ionization potentials; electron affinities; dipole moments; spin-orbit coupling constants and in principle any physical observable. In general such quantities can be computed to an accuracy comparable with experimental accuracy for molecules with up to about twenty atoms. Even excitation energies to excited electronic states can be calculated.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.3.2">
<h3 class="h3">Assemblies of molecules</h3>
<p class="noindent">When large numbers of molecules, in particular solvent molecules, are incorporated in computations then thermodynamic properties can be calculated. Thus we can calculate not just the energy of an individual molecule but enthalpies and free energies. These lead to heat capacities and equilibrium constants. Equilibrium constants cover the whole range of equilibria, not just chemical equilibria. Thus binding energies between small molecules and macromolecules; partition coefficients and ionization constants are possible solvable problems as is the calculation of potentials of mean force or free energy as a function of some coordinate.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.3.3">
<h3 class="h3">Reactions of molecules</h3>
<p class="noindent">Even computational chemistry cannot predict the rate constants for chemical reactions, which remains perhaps the single biggest unsolved problem in chemistry. However, computer calculations can give an idea of relative rate constants and structures of transition states. It has been possible to include solvent effects in simple reactions and to follow the behaviour of macromolecules over periods of perhaps a few hundreds of picoseconds (1 ps = 10<sup>&#x2212;12</sup> seconds).</p>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.4">
<h2 class="h2">1.4<span class="space">&#160;</span>Computational developments</h2>
<p class="noindent">Every time a significant advance has been made in computing technology or in application then computational chemists have seized the opportunity and incorporated it into their own field. Two examples will suffice to illustrate.</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.4.1">
<h3 class="h3">Computer graphics</h3>
<p class="noindent">Perhaps of all advances in the last decade or so the impact of computer graphics has had the biggest influence on computational chemistry. Graphics provided the link between computer professionals and traditional laboratory bench chemists. Chemists have always used molecular models to understand their subject. However as the molecular systems studied become larger and larger the drawbacks of mechanical models became apparent. It may take weeks or months to build a model of a protein from the x-ray crystal coordinates of atom position. The resulting model will be very crude since all bond lengths and angles will be standard values chosen for building blocks; the model will suffer from gravity &#x2013; bits fall off, and it is difficult to see or <a id="page_4" class="page">Page 4, Introduction</a>measure distances in the interior of the model. Computer-graphic displays overcome all these disadvantages and can utilize the full range of display used in computer games. Colour; three-dimensional viewing; motion of atoms; the ability to rotate, cut away or highlight features. Even the techniques of virtual reality are already making an impact in molecular computer graphics. Beyond merely displaying models of molecules, graphics terminals and workstations can be used to reveal molecular properties such as electron densities or the energy of interaction of point charges with a molecule, to give some indication of reactivities or intermolecular binding preferences.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.4.2">
<h3 class="h3">Neural networks</h3>
<p class="noindent">At its crudest level the human brain can be considered as a set of interconnecting cells or neurons with the process of learning being based on developing a range of connections of variable strength between these elements. This essential idea is the basis of the neural network. The network has a number of processing elements or nodes with connections between them. Each element takes in a signal from elements to which it is connected in the previous layer, and sends out a signal to the next layer. The strength of signal being passed depends on the &#x2018;weight&#x2019; of each of the connections, and it is these weights which are varied. First, a set of input data is connected by the network to an output. When both input and output are known the weights are adjusted during &#x2018;training&#x2019; so that the output is appropriate to the input. For example, a set of molecular properties may be used as input to predict another property, perhaps an ionization potential. When the net is trained to give the right answer for a training set of molecules it can then be tried on cases where the input properties are known but not the output. This technique is in many respects a form of pattern recognition and is becoming widespread as a way of predicting values of properties which are hard to measure accurately particularly in biochemical applications.</p>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_1.5">
<h2 class="h2">1.5<span class="space">&#160;</span>Summary</h2>
<p class="noindent">Computational chemistry is one of the fastest growing areas of chemistry. Although there are specialists in the field, increasingly the techniques are being applied by experimental chemists using the ever-growing power of ever-cheaper computers. A knowledge of the topic is important for anyone contemplating chemical research.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>