<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Concluding remarks</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="con">
<a id="page_91" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 91, Concluding remarks</a>
<h1 class="main">Concluding remarks</h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">The object of the preceding chapters was to provide an introduction to many of the methods currently used by practising computational chemists; in no way was it intended as a &#x2018;how to do it&#x2019; manual. Although the emphasis has been on computer modelling of biological systems, many of the methods are equally valid in other areas of research. One can imagine mapping out a cavity within a zeolite in much the same way as we have described for enzymes; the conformations of a polymer can be investigated by Monte Carlo or molecular dynamics methods; solid state systems can be treated as periodic ensembles of molecules, but subject to particular symmetry constraints.</p>
<p class="indent">That computational chemistry now plays a role in such a diverse range of chemical disciplines is a clear sign of its maturity as a field. Chemistry should be concerned with molecular explanations and it is pictures of this type which computational chemistry provides. As long ago as 1959 it was noted by Charles Coulson, in an after dinner speech, that there appeared to be two cultures within quantum chemistry. The first was concerned with obtaining ever more accurate solutions for very small systems while the second was prepared to sacrifice absolute accuracy and work with more approximate methods in the hope of gaining insight into &#x2018;real&#x2019; chemical problems: molecular pictures. The latter are now computational rather than theoretical chemists. This distinction also serves as a motivation for understanding the underlying principles of the subject; before placing an interpretation on the results of a calculation one must be fully aware as to whether they are valid within the limits of the level of theory.</p>
<p class="indent">Finally, we must look to the future. The most obvious impact will be technological; faster and more powerful computers should enable much larger systems to be investigated. Also, the trend towards parallel processing will lead to a re-evaluation of many algorithms in the hope that they can be made to run more efficiently. The second major development should be in the computational methods themselves, in particular the energy calculations. Vastly increased computer power should allow the utilization of less approximate force fields or even large scale quantum chemical calculations. In either case the developments will have obvious benefits in both academic and industrial research.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>