<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="Fur">
<a id="page_92" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 92, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main">Further reading</h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">General</h2>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Allen, M. P. and Tildesley, D. J. (1987). <i>Computer simulation of liquids</i>. Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Atkins, P. W. (1990). <i>Physical chemistry</i>, (4th edn). OUP, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Branden, C. and Tooze, J. (1991). <i>Introduction to protein structure</i>. Garland, New York.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Burkert, U. and Allinger, N. L. (1982). <i>Molecular mechanics</i>. ACS Monograph no. 177, American Chemical Society, Washington.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Cartwright, &#x0397;. M. (1993). <i>Applications of artificial intelligence in chemistry</i>. OUP, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Chandler, D. (1987). <i>Introduction to modern statistical mechanics</i>, <a href="Chapter_06.xhtml">chapter 6</a>. OUP, New York.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Clark, T. A. (1985). <i>A handbook of computational chemistry</i>. Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Richards, W. G. and Cooper, D. L. (1983). <i>Ab initio molecular orbital calculations for chemists</i>, (2nd edn). Clarendon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Stewart, J. J. P. (1990). <i>MOPAC: A semi-empirical molecular orbital program</i>. ESCOM, Leiden.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">van Gunsteren, W. F. and Berendsen, H. J. C. (1990). <i>Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl</i>, <b>29</b>, 992&#x2013;1023.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">White, D. N. J. (1978). <i>Molecular Structure by Diffraction Methods</i>, <b>6</b>, 38&#x2013;62.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Other applications</h2>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Beveridge, D. L., Swaminathan, S., Ravishanker, G., Withka, J. M., Srinivasan, J., Prevost, C. <i>et al</i>. (1993). In <i>Topics in molecular and structural biology Vol. 17, Water and biological molecules</i>, (ed. Westhof, E.) pp 165&#x2013;225. Macmillan, London. (DNA).</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Catlow, C. R. A., (ed.) (1992). <i>Modelling of structure and reactivity in zeolites</i>. Academic Press, London.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Colbourn, E. A., (ed.) (1994). <i>Computer simulation of polymers</i>. Longman, Harlow.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">French, A. D. and Brady, J. W., (eds.) (1990). <i>Computer modelling of carbohydrate molecules</i>. ACS Symposium Series, American Chemical Society, Washington.</p>
<p class="bindent" style="width:65%;">Pastor, R. W. (1994). <i>Current Opinion in Structural Biology</i>, <b>4</b>, 486&#x2013;492. (Lipids).</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>