<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>

<p class="fmnoindent">What is computational chemistry? In attempting to answer this question our aim has been to explain many of the underlying principles and assumptions of the subject while at the same time showing, through examples, how its growth has been driven by the problems it has been used to investigate. Many ofthese techniques are firmly rooted in established areas ofphysical chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Our starting point is the very detailed descriptions ofmolecules which come from quantum chemistry. Spectroscopists have simplified this picture by repre¬sentinga molecule's motions in terms ofclassical force fields which, in turn, has led to the development ofthe molecular mechanics method. As one moves on to larger systems one must consider how molecules interact with each other, and it is here that experimental and theoretical studies ofintermolecular forces have shown how more simple potential functions can be used to approximate molecular behaviour. Finally, simulations ofsmall ensembles ofmolecules can beextrapolated to predictbulkbehaviour, ofthetype measuredbyexperiment, using the techniques of statistical mechanics. However, although much of the theory has been known for many years, it is only recent developments in com¬puter hardware which have allowed application to large molecular systems.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The emphasis of the subject matter of this book is on biological systems. This has been quite deliberate in that it reflects the authors' research interests, but more importantly, it is here that computational chemistry has had the greatest impact, both academically and industrially, in providing detailed</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Dublin</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">G. H. G.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">Oxford</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">W. G. R.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;">October 1994</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;"></td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>