<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface To The Second Edition</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a id="page_xvii" class="page">Page xvii, Preface to the second edition</a></p>
<p class="con"><b>Preface to the second edition</b></p>
<p class="line" style="border-bottom:2pt solid #006F9A;"></p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent-frnt">Students of chemistry are not hard-pressed to find a text to support their learning in organic chemistry through their years at university. The shelves of a university bookshop will usually offer a choice of at least half a dozen&#x2014;all entitled &#x2018;Organic Chemistry&#x2019;, all with substantially more than 1000 pages. Closer inspection of these titles quickly disappoints expectations of variety. Almost without exception, general organic chemistry texts have been written to accompany traditional American sophomore courses, with their rather precisely defined requirements. This has left the authors of these books little scope for reinvigorating their presentation of chemistry with new ideas.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">We wanted to write a book whose structure grows from the development of ideas rather than being dictated by the sequential presentation of facts. We believe that students benefit most of all from a book which leads from familiar concepts to unfamiliar ones, not just encouraging them to <i>know</i> but to <i>understand</i> and to understand <i>why</i>. We were spurred on by the nature of the best modern university chemistry courses, which themselves follow this pattern: this is after all how science itself develops. We also knew that if we did this we could, from the start, relate the chemistry we were talking about to the two most important sorts of chemistry that exist&#x2014;the chemistry that is known as life, and the chemistry as practised by chemists solving real problems in laboratories.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">We aimed at an approach which would make sense to and appeal to today&#x2019;s students. But all of this meant taking the axe to the roots of some long-standing textbook traditions. The best way to find out how something works is to take it apart and put it back together again, so we started with the tools for expressing chemical ideas: structural diagrams and curly arrows. Organic chemistry is too huge a field to learn even a small part by rote, but with these tools, students can soon make sense of chemistry which may be unfamiliar in detail by relating it to what they know and understand. By calling on curly arrows and ordering chemistry according to mechanism we allow ourselves to discuss mechanistically (and orbitally) simple reactions (addition to C=O, for example) before more complex and involved ones (such as S<sub>N</sub>1 and S<sub>N</sub>2).</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">Complexity follows in its own time, but we have deliberately omitted detailed discussion of obscure reactions of little value, or of variants of reactions which lie a simple step of mechanistic logic from our main story: some of these are explored in the problems associated with each chapter, which are available online.<a href="#pre1"><sup>1</sup></a> We have similarly aimed to avoid exhuming principles and rules (from those of Le Ch&#x00E2;telier through Markovnikov, Saytseff, least motion, and the like) to explain things which are better understood in terms of unifying fundamental thermodynamic or mechanistic concepts.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">All science must be underpinned by evidence, and support for organic chemistry's claims is provided by spectroscopy. For this reason we first reveal to students the facts which spectroscopy tells us (<a href="chapter_3.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>) before trying to explain them (<a href="chapter_4.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>) and then use them to deduce mechanisms (<a href="chapter_5.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>). NMR in particular forms a significant part of four chapters in the book, and evidence drawn from NMR underpins many of the discussions right through the book. Likewise, the mechanistic principles we outline in <a href="chapter_5.xhtml">Chapter 5</a>, firmly based in the orbital theories of <a href="chapter_4.xhtml">Chapter 4</a>, underpin all of the discussion of new reactions through the rest of the book.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">We have presented chemistry as something whose essence is truth, of provable veracity, but which is embellished with opinions and suggestions to which not all chemists subscribe. We aim to avoid dogma and promote the healthy weighing up of evidence, and on occasion we are content to leave readers to draw their own conclusions. Science is important not just to scientists, but to society. Our aim has been to write a book which itself takes a scientific</p>
<p><a id="page_xviii" class="page">Page xviii, Preface to the second edition</a></p>
<p class="noindent-frnt">standpoint&#x2014;&#x2018;one foot inside the boundary of the known, the other just outside&#x2019;<sup>2</sup>&#x2014;and encourages the reader to do the same.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">The authors are indebted to the many supportive and critical readers of the first edition of this book who have supplied us over the last ten years with a stream of comments and corrections, hearty encouragements and stern rebukes. All were carefully noted and none was overlooked while we were writing this edition. In many cases these contributions helped us to correct errors or make other improvements to the text. We would also like to acknowledge the support and guidance of the editorial team at OUP, and again to recognize the seminal contribution of the man who first nurtured the vision that organic chemistry could be taught with a book like this, Michael Rodgers. The time spent on the preparation of this edition was made available only with the forbearance of our families, friends and research groups, and we thank all of them for their patience and understanding.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="chapter"><b>Changes for this edition</b></p>
<p class="indent-frnt">In the decade since the publication of the first edition of this book it has become clear that some aspects of our original approach were in need of revision, some chapters in need of updating with material which has gained in significance over those years, and others in need of shortening. We have taken into account a consistent criticism from readers that the early chapters of the first edition were too detailed for new students, and have made substantial changes to the material in Chapters 4, 8, and 12, shifting the emphasis towards explanation and away from detail more suitably found in specialised texts. Every chapter has been rewritten to improve clarity and new explanations and examples have been used widely. The style, location, and content of the spectroscopy chapters (3, 13, 18, and 31) have been revised to strengthen the links with material appearing nearby in the book. Concepts such as conjugate addition and regioselectivity, which previously lacked coherent presentation, now have their own chapters (22 and 24). In some sections of the first edition, groups of chapters were used to present related material: these chapter groups have now been condensed&#x2014;so, for example, Chapters 25 and 26 on enolate chemistry replace four previous chapters, Chapters 31 and 32 on cyclic molecules replace three chapters, <a href="chapter_36.xhtml">Chapter 36</a> on rearrangements and fragmentations replaces two chapters, and <a href="chapter_42.xhtml">Chapter 42</a> on the organic chemistry of life replaces three chapters (the former versions of which are available online). Three chapters placed late in the first edition have been moved forward and revised to emphasize links between their material and the enolate chemistry of Chapters 25 and 26, thus <a href="chapter_27.xhtml">Chapter 27</a> deals with double-bond stereocontrol in the context of organo-main group chemistry, and Chapters 29 and 30, addressing aromatic heterocycles, now reinforce the link between many of the mechanisms characteristic of these compounds and those of the carbonyl addition and condensation reactions discussed in the previous chapters. Earlier discussion of heterocycles also allows a theme of cyclic molecules and transition states to develop throughout Chapters 29-36, and matches more closely the typical order of material in undergraduate courses.</p>
<p class="indent-frnt">Some fields have inevitably advanced considerably in the last 10 years: the chapters on organometallic chemistry (40) and asymmetric synthesis (41) have received the most extensive revision, and are now placed consecutively to allow the essential role of organometallic catalysis in asymmetric synthesis to come to the fore. Throughout the book, new examples, especially from the recent literature of drug synthesis, have been used to illustrate the reactions being discussed.</p>
<p class="noindent-frnt" id="pre1"><sup>1</sup> See <a href="http://www.oxfordtextbooks.co.uk/orc/clayden2e/">www.oxfordtextbooks.co.uk/orc/clayden2e/</a>.</p>
<p class="noindent-frnt" id="pre2"><sup>2</sup> McEvedy, C. The Penguin Atlas of Ancient History, Penguin Books, 1967.</p>
</body>
</html>