<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>From Molecules to Crystallizers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page_v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">Crystalline materials form an essential part of our modem technological environment. From metals and ceramics, cements and plastics through pharmaceuticals, foods. cosmetics, pigments and a myriad of electronic components, we use and rely on crystallinity every day of our lives. While crystallization and crystallography are essentially branches of physical chemistry, the production of crystalline materials relies additionally on chemical engineering for the design and operation of appropriate processes and equipment. In this book we have attempted to provide a multidisciplinary perspective of the processes by which molecules may be transformed into crystals and hence into products. We have combined crystallography, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, reactor modelling and surface chemistry in a format which we hope will demonstrate how all these elements are integral to the formation of crystalline materials. Throughout we have attempted to give the text an historical perspective and to illustrate theoretical concepts by use of data on familiar materials. In this way we hope to have linked the fundamental aspects of molecular self-assembly through crystal formation to crystallizer design and product formulation. in a comprehensive and accessible way.</p>
<p class="indent">We would particularly like to thank Harvey Alison, Nicholas Blagden, Mike Quayle, Linda Seton-Williams and Elizabeth Worthington for their help with the preparation of the diagrams and the text. Most especially we thank Trish and Pat for their continued interest, their support and their forbearance.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>Manchester</i></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">R.J.D.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabled">September 1999</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabler">J. G.</p></td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>