<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>How to use this book</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_iv" style="width:100%;">Page vi, How to use this book</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>How to use this book</b></h1>
<p class="num-hang">1.<span class="space">&#160;</span>READ, LEARN AND REVISE THE CHEMISTRY SUGGESTED <i>before</i> you attempt to answer the questions in any particular chapter. It often helps to use more than one book, if possible.</p>
<p class="num-hang">2.<span class="space">&#160;</span>COVER THE ANSWER (below the dotted line) with a sheet of paper <i>before</i> you start reading the question.</p>
<p class="num-hang">3.<span class="space">&#160;</span>READ THE WHOLE QUESTION SLOWLY. Don&#x2019;t just pick out key words and hope that you know what the question is going to be. Hints are sometimes given in the margin beside the question.</p>
<p class="num-hang">4.<span class="space">&#160;</span>WRITE THE WHOLE OF YOUR ANSWER AND CHECK IT <i>before</i> you look at the book&#x2019;s answer.</p>
<p class="hang-cen"><i>Check your drawings.</i> Do they represent the correct compounds? Are the normal rules of valency observed?</p>
<p class="hang-cen"><i>Check your equations.</i> Numbers of atoms and charges must balance, and numbers of electrons too.</p>
<p class="hang-cen"><i>Check your calculations</i>, especially any molecular formulae and relative molecular masses used. Check that your answer is roughly what you expect: for example that the pH of an aqueous base is greater than 7.</p>
<p class="hang-cen"><i>Check over your answer</i>&#x2014;is it chemically reasonable and is it compatible with all the data given in the question?</p>
<p class="num-hang">5.<span class="space">&#160;</span>COMPARE YOUR ANSWER WITH THE BOOK&#x2019;S. If the two answers say essentially the same thing, but not necessarily in exactly the same words, that is good. If they differ markedly, try to work out why. Comments in the margin beside the answers include alternative explanations or further extensions, as well as some common errors.</p>
<p class="num-hang">6.<span class="space">&#160;</span>HELP IS AT HAND&#x0021; References to the relevant sections in Hornby and Peach, &#x2018;Foundations of Organic Chemistry&#x2019; are given at the end of each question, and there are similar sections in all good textbooks. Your teacher or tutor will always be able to help you.</p>

</body>
</html>