<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_iv" style="width:100%;">Page iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This book has been written in response to requests from readers of our <i>Foundations of organic chemistry</i>.<a href="#star1">*</a> Practice in solving problems is the one certain way of ensuring a good working understanding of the basic principles of organic chemistry. Much of the pleasure in studying the subject lies in working out the often beautiful architecture of the molecules, in understanding their reactions and in devising elegant ways of making them. We have tried to share our enjoyment of problem-solving whilst helping students to reinforce and extend what they have learned at school.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We have retained the pattern of <i>Foundations</i>, starting with three chapters of questions and answers on basic physical organic chemistry and general mechanisms before going on to the mechanisms in more detail. We have not included spectroscopic problems (these are available in the companion volume, <i>Foundations of physical chemistry: worked examples</i>) but recognition of functional groups is emphasised here, as this is probably the most important aspect of such problems at this stage. We have tried again to keep the majority of ideas and reactions within reach of Advanced Level chemistry students, whilst also using some less familiar and more interesting compounds in our examples.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We are most grateful to all those who have given us valuable criticism and advice: in particular Peter Carpenter (Roedean School), Martin Grossel (Southampton University), Jean Johnson (Open University) and Stephen Lunt (Bradfield College). We remain indebted to those others who helped us with <i>Foundations</i>: John Nixon, David Smith and Sydney Bailey. Professor Stephen Davies has given us unfailing support in the production of both books. Finally we would like to thank Yuki Soga for her help with the diagrams.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We would like to dedicate this book to Janet and to John, to Sarah and William, and to Charles, Sarah and James.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">Buckingham</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">G. M. H.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">Oxford</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">J. M. P.</td></tr>
</table>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="fmnoindent" id="star1">*Oxford Chemistry Primer No. 9, Oxford University Press, 1993 referred to throughout as H &#38; P</p>
</body>
</html>