<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Electron transfer plays a pivotal role in determining the outcome of chemical reactions. Electrochemistry offers a unique and powerful approach to examine these events providing key insights into the fundamental factors which drive such processes. This text sets out to provide the reader with a general overview of background theory and experimental techniques employed by electrochemists in the study of electrode reactions. Early chapters concentrate on quantifying the influence of electron transfer kinetics and mass transport via diffusion, convection, and migration, on electrode reactions. These themes are developed in Chapter 3 where the principles of voltammetry are explored and examples from the recent academic literature used to illustrate the versatility of this technique. Chapter 4 focuses on the tiny region close to the electrode surface known as the electrical double layer. In particular, models are described and experimental techniques outlined which probe this important region. The final chapter covers the important area of spectroelectrochemistry which is a field of intense academic research. As the name suggests these are techniques which combine electrochemical and spectroscopic measurements to examine the often highly complex electrode reactions. Examples are taken from the recent <a id="page_vi" class="page">Page vi, Preface</a>literature and include the application of scanning tunnelling microscopy to the investigation of nanoscale surface reactions as well as techniques such as esr spectroscopy which probe homogeneous phase reactivity.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I	am indebted to many friends and colleagues who have made valuable contributions to this text. I would like to particularly thank Richard Compton, Melanie Kershaw, and Laurie Peter for their advice during the production of this text and Michael Weaver for original photographs of his STM studies of sulfur described in Chapter 5.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Bath</i>	<span style="float:right"><b>A.C.F.</b></span><br/>
April 1996</p>
</body>
</html>
