<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="fur">
<a id="page_91" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 91, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main3">Further reading</h1>
<p class="noindent">The textbooks and monographs listed below contain good accounts of macrocyclic co-ordination chemistry. Most contemporary textbooks of inorganic or bioinorganic chemistry also contain chapters or significant sections on macrocyclic ligands.</p>
<p class="hang1" style="width:63%;">Bernal, I. ed. (1987). <i>Stereochemical and Stereophysical Behaviour of Macrocycles</i>, Elsevier, Amsterdam.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Black, D.St.C. (1987). Chapters 7.4 and 61.1 in <i>Comprehensive Coordination Chemistry</i>, eds. G. Wilkinson, R.D. Gillard and J.A. McCleverty, Pergamon, Oxford.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Constable, E.C. (1995). <i>Metals and Ligand Reactivity</i>, VCH, Weinheim. Dietrich, B., Viout, P., and Lehn, J.-M. (1993). <i>Macrocyclic Chemistry</i>, VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Fenton, D. (1995). <i>Biocoordination Chemistry</i>, Oxford University Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Gutsche, CD. (1989). <i>Calixarenes, RSC</i>, Cambridge.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Gokel, G.W. (1991). <i>Crown Ethers and Cryptands</i>, RSC, Cambridge.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">de Sousa Healy, M. and Rest, A.J. (1978). <i>Adv. Inorg. Chem. Radiochem.</i>, <b>21</b>, 1.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Henrick, K., Tasker, P.A., and Lindoy, L.F. (1985). <i>Progr. Inorg. Chem.</i>, <b>33</b>, 1.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Lehn, J.-M. (1995). <i>Supramolecular Chemistry</i>, VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Lindoy, L.F. (1989). <i>The Chemistry of Macrocyclic Ligand Complexes</i>, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Izatt, R.M., Christensen, J.J. eds. (1978). <i>Synthetic Multidentate Macrocyclic Compounds</i>, Academic Press, New York.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Melson, G.A. ed. (1979). <i>Co-ordination Chemistry of Macrocyclic Compounds</i>, Plenum, New York.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Newkome, G.R. ed. (1997). <i>Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry II</i>, Vol. 9. Elsevier, Oxford.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">Parker, D. (1996). Macrocycle Synthesis, A Practical Approach. OUP, Oxford, 1996.</p>
<p class="hang" style="width:63%;">V&#246;gtle, F. and Weber, E. (1985). <i>Host Guest Complex Chemistry</i>, Springer, Berlin.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
