<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="frontmatter">
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main2">Preface</h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This book deals with the coordination chemistry of macrocyclic ligands. Take the current issue of one of the major chemistry journals off the library shelf and you will be certain to find a number of articles describing the synthesis, characterisation, properties or application of a macrocyclic ligand. This book tries to explain why these ligands are used so widely and to introduce the reader to some of the unusual properties of their complexes. As in any such text, the omissions far outweigh the content and I apologise in advance to any reader whose favourite ligand system has been omitted.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The structure of the book is one that a synthetic chemist will find familiar. Ligand synthesis is followed by the synthesis of metal complexes. The properties of the metal complexes are then dealt with and the final chapter gives an introduction to the properties of macrocyclic compounds beyond the bounds of metal ion coordination chemistry. After much heart-searching, all coordinate bonds have been drawn as normal bonds without an arrowhead in order to avoid overly cluttered graphics.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I should like to thank Professor Thomas Kaden, Professor Catherine Housecroft and Dr Paul Bowyer for critical reading of the text and many useful suggestions. I also give my grateful thanks to Catherine for clarifying some of the more obscure features of OUP style sheets and typing some of the chapters. Finally, I must thank all at OUP, John Evans and Steve Davies for their patience!</p>
<p class="noindenta"><i>Basel</i><br/>August 1998</p>
<p class="right1" style="margin-top:-2em;">E.C.C.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>