<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:-0.5em;">Writing this book has been both a challenge and a pleasure. A challenge because supramolecular science is an ever-expanding area of modem chemistry, making the selection of material with which to introduce this topic to an undergraduate or graduate reader, an endless stream of difficult decisions. A pleasure because above all, supramolecular chemistry is an intellectually stimulating and beautiful area of chemistry in which to work. Many of the systems discussed in this book illustrate great artistry and creativity, and it was refreshing to reconsider them all.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This text is based loosely on a series of final year lectures in Oxford, and provides the basis for such a course to be taught to final year undergraduates or graduates at the start of their research years. Supramolecular chemistry is ideal for the advanced level student who, armed with basic principles from across the whole of modem chemistry, can then apply them to understanding this truly interdisciplinary field.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We are particularly indebted to Prof. R. J. P. Williams for his insights and thoughts on the early stages of each of the chapters included in this primer.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We would also like to thank Prof. Jonathan Sessler (Austin), Dr. Mark Ogden (Curtin University, Perth, WA), Dr. Lance Twyman (Oxford), Dr. Adrian Bisson (Zeneca Specialties) and Mr. Christopher Mellor (Oxford) for reading various incarnations of this primer and pointing out our errors&#x0021; Additionally, Prof. Frangois Diederich, Anja Schwogler and all David Smith&#x2019;s co-workers in the &#x2018;Blacklab&#x2019; (at ETH, Zurich) are thanked for their great patience during the preparation of this project.</p>

<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1.5em;"><i>Oxford and Zurich</i><br/>September 1998</p>

<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:-3em;text-align:right;width:100%;">Paul Beer, Philip Gale and David Smith</p>
</body>
</html>
