<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Additional reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="add">
<a id="page_86" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 86, additional reading</a>
<h1 class="main">Additional reading</h1>
<h2 class="h2">General</h2>
<p class="hang1">Burgess, J. (1988). <i>Metal Ions in Solution</i>, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="hang">Espenson, J. H. (1981). <i>Chemical Kinetics and Reaction Mechanisms</i>, McGraw Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="hang">Kochi, J. K. (1978). <i>Organometallic Mechanisms and Catalysis</i>, Academic Press, New York.</p>
<p class="hang">Wilkins, R.G. (1991). <i>Kinetics and Mechanism of Reactions of Transition Metal Complexes</i>, VCH, Weinheim.</p>
<p class="hang">Moore, J. W. and Pearson, R. G. (1981). <i>Kinetics and Mechanism</i>, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="hang">Atwood, J.D. (1985). <i>Inorganic and Organometallic Reaction Mechanisms</i>, Brooks/Cole, Monterey.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Substitution at square-planar sites</h2>
<p class="hang1">Cross, R. J. (1989). <i>Advances in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, <b>34</b>, 219&#8211;292.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Substitution mechanisms</h2>
<p class="hang1">Tobe, M. L. (1987). <i>Comprehensive Coordination Chemistry</i> (ed. G. Wilkinson, R. D. Gillard, and J. A. McCleverty), <b>1</b>, <a href="Chapter7.xhtml#ch7.1">Chapter 7.1</a>, Pergamon, Oxford.</p>
<p class="hang">Howell, J. A. S. and Burkinshaw, P. M. (1983). <i>Chemical Reviews</i>, <b>83</b>, 557&#8211;599.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Catalysed substitution</h2>
<p class="hang1">Lawrance, G. A. (1989). <i>Advances in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, 34, 145&#8211;194.</p>
<p class="hang">Tobe, M. L. (1983). <i>Advances in Inorganic and Bioinorganic Mechanisms</i>, 2, 1&#8211;94.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Electron transfer</h2>
<p class="hang1">Cannon, R. D. (1980). <i>Electron Transfer Reactions</i>, Butterworths, London.</p>
<p class="hang">Haim, A. (1983). <i>Progress in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, <b>30</b>, 273&#8211;303.</p>
<a id="page_87" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 87, additional reading</a>
<p class="hang">Marcus, R. A. (1964). <i>Annual Reviews in Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>15</b>, 155&#8211;196.</p>
<p class="hang">Meyer, T. J. (1983). <i>Progress in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, <b>30</b>, 389&#8211;412.</p>
<p class="hang">Meyer, T. J. and Taube, H. (1987). <i>Comprehensive Coordination Chemistry</i> (ed. G. Wilkinson, R. D. Gillard, and J. A. McCleverty), <b>1</b>, <a href="Chapter7.xhtml#ch7.2">Chapter 7.2</a>, Pergamon, Oxford.</p>
<p class="hang">Taube, H. and Gould, E. S. (1969). <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i>, <b>2</b>, 1225.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Oxidative-addition</h2>
<p class="hang1">Henderson, S. and Henderson, R. A. (1987). <i>Advances in Physical Organic Chemistry</i>, <b>23</b>, 1&#8211;62.</p>
<p class="hang">Lappert, M. F. and Lednor, P. W. (1976). <i>Advances in Organometallic Chemistry</i>, <b>14</b>, 345&#8211;399.</p>
<h2 class="h2">Reactions at ligands</h2>
<p class="hang1">Hay, R. W. (1987). <i>Comprehensive Coordination Chemistry</i> (ed. G. Wilkinson, R. D. Gillard, and J. A. McCleverty), <b>6</b>, <i>Chapter 61.4, Pergamon, Oxford.</i></p>
<h2 class="h2">Insertion reactions</h2>
<p class="hang1">Anderson, G. K. and Cross, R. J. (1984). <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i>, <b>17</b>, 67&#8211;74.</p>
<p class="hang">Wojcicki, A. (1974). <i>Advances in Organometallic Chemistry</i>, <b>12</b>, 31&#8211;81.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>