<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Radiation Heat Transfer</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Author&#x2019;s Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Author&#x2019;s Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">When I first started lecturing radiation heat transfer to undergraduate students, it soon became clear that there was not an ideal textbook which could be recommended to them. Textbooks were of two types: there were general engineering heat transfer texts, which often gave a fairly superficial treatment and rarely ventured beyond simple problems of radiation between surfaces, and there were the highly specialised texts, which, while commendably rigorous, went far beyond what an undergraduate student would need. This text attempts to fill the gap by introducing the non-specialist not only to the basics of radiative exchange between surfaces, but also to the complexities of gas radiation and the treatment of combined modes of heat transfer. It also covers a number of practical applications involving radiation heat transfer, including heat transfer in furnaces, techniques for the measurement of temperature, and radiation from combustion gases.</p>
<p class="fm-in">The text works from a student&#x2019;s point of view, and is based firmly in the tradition of hand calculation, as encountered in undergraduate teaching programmes. Modern computational techniques have, of course, transformed heat transfer modelling for the specialist, but it is not the intention to cover those aspects here. The aim is for this text to provide the novice with the necessary grasp of the fundamentals, which can subsequently be extended to more complex geometries.</p>
<p class="fm-in">I should like to thank British Gas pic, whose generous sponsorship of a teaching fellowship at Cambridge University enabled me to develop much of the course material included here. I should also like to thank former colleagues at the University of Sheffield for their support, particularly Dr Peter Foster and Dr Yajue Wu for their comments on the manuscript.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;margin-top:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled">2000</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">H. R. N. J.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>