<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>PART 2</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a id="page_271" class="page" style="width:100%;">page 271, Part 2 The elements and their compounds</a></p>
<section epub:type="part" id="part02">
<div class="bgpi" style="width:100%;">
<h2 class="h2" style="margin-left:6em;"><b>PART 2<br/>The elements and their compounds</b></h2>
</div>
<div class="bgpink-2" style="width:100%;margin-top:-1em;">
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">This part of the book describes the physical and chemical properties of the elements as they are set out in the periodic table. This &#8216;descriptive chemistry&#8217; of the elements reveals a rich tapestry of patterns and trends, many of which can be rationalized and explained by application of the concepts developed in <a href="Part01.xhtml#part01">Part 1</a>.</p>
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">The first chapter of this part, <a href="Chapter09.xhtml#ch09">Chapter 9</a>, summarizes the trends and patterns in the context of the periodic table and the principles described in <a href="Part01.xhtml#part01">Part 1</a>. The trends described in this chapter are illustrated throughout the following chapters. <a href="Chapter10.xhtml#ch10">Chapter 10</a> deals with the chemistry of the unique element hydrogen. The following eight chapters (<a href="Chapter11.xhtml#ch11">Chapters 11</a>−<a href="Chapter18.xhtml#ch18">18</a> ) proceed systematically across the main groups of the periodic table. The elements of these groups demonstrate the diversity, intricacy, and fascinating nature of inorganic chemistry.</p>
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">The chemical properties of the d-block elements are so diverse and extensive that the next four chapters of the part are devoted to them. <a href="Chapter19.xhtml#ch19">Chapter 19</a> reviews the descriptive chemistry of the three series of d-block elements. <a href="Chapter20.xhtml#ch20">Chapter 20</a> describes how electronic structure affects the chemical and physical properties of the d-metal complexes and <a href="Chapter21.xhtml#ch21">Chapter 21</a> describes their reactions in solution. <a href="Chapter22.xhtml#ch22">Chapter 22</a> deals with the industrially vital d-metal organometallic compounds. Our tour of the periodic table draws to a close in <a href="Chapter23.xhtml#ch23">Chapter 23</a> with an account of the important and unusual properties of the f-block elements.</p>
</div>
</section>
</body>
</html>