<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>PART 3</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_653" class="page" style="width:100%;">page 653, Part 3 Frontiers</a>
<section epub:type="part" id="part03">
<div class="bggreen" style="width:100%;">
<h2 class="h2" style="margin-left:6em;"><b>PART 3<br/>Frontiers</b></h2>
</div>
<div class="bgpink-3" style="width:100%;margin-top:-1em;">
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">Inorganic chemistry is advancing rapidly at its frontiers, especially where research impinges on other disciplines such as the life sciences, condensed-matter physics, materials science, and environmental chemistry. These swiftly developing fields also represent many areas of inorganic chemistry where new compounds are used in catalysis, electronics, and pharmaceuticals. The aim of this section of the book is to demonstrate the vigorous nature of contemporary inorganic chemistry by building on the introductory and descriptive material in <a href="Part01.xhtml#part01">Part 1</a> and <a href="Part02.xhtml#part02">2</a>.</p>
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">These Frontiers chapters open with a discussion in <a href="Chapter24.xhtml#ch24">Chapter 24</a> of materials chemistry, covering solid-state compounds, their synthesis, structure, and electronic, magnetic, and optical properties. One area, included here and that has developed enormously in the past decade, is that of nanomaterials. The recent focus of research worldwide on new materials and nanomaterials that can be used for the generation, storage, and use of energy, including that obtained from renewable sources, is described here. <a href="Chapter25.xhtml#ch25">Chapter 25</a> covers catalysis involving inorganic compounds and discusses the basic concepts relating to catalytic reactions at metal centres. Finally, we turn to the frontiers where inorganic chemistry meets life. <a href="Chapter26.xhtml#ch26">Chapter 26</a> discusses the natural roles of different elements in living organisms and the various and extraordinarily subtle ways in which each one is exploited. Evolution has selected the most suitable element for each application, be it transport, signalling, sensing, or catalysis, and produced molecules and materials having exquisite structures and unique properties. <a href="Chapter27.xhtml#ch27">Chapter 27</a> describes how medical science is exploiting certain inorganic elements, such as platinum, gold, lithium, arsenic, and radioactive technetium, to treat and diagnose illness.</p>
</div>

</section>
</body>
</html>