<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>PART 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:100%;">page 1, Part 1 Foundations</a></p>
<section epub:type="part" id="part01">
<div class="bgblue" style="width:100%;">
<h2 class="h2" style="margin-left:5.5em;"><b>PART 1<br/>Foundations</b></h2>
</div>
<div class="bglb" style="width:100%;margin-top:-1em;">
<p class="noindenta" style="width:70%;margin-left:9em;">The eight chapters in this part of the book lay the foundations of inorganic chemistry. The first three chapters develop an understanding of the structures of atoms, molecules, and solids. <a href="Chapter01.xhtml#ch01">Chapter 1</a> introduces the structure of atoms in terms of quantum theory and describes important periodic trends in their properties. <a href="Chapter02.xhtml#ch02">Chapter 2</a> develops molecular structure in terms of increasingly sophisticated models of covalent bonding. <a href="Chapter03.xhtml#ch03">Chapter 3</a> describes ionic bonding, the structures and properties of a range of typical solids, the role of defects in materials, and the electronic properties of solids. The next two chapters focus on two major types of reactions. <a href="Chapter04.xhtml#ch04">Chapter 4</a> explains how acid&#x2013;base properties are defined, measured, and applied across a wide area of chemistry. <a href="Chapter05.xhtml#ch05">Chapter 5</a> describes oxidation and reduction, and demonstrates how electrochemical data can be used to predict and explain the outcomes of reactions in which electrons are transferred between molecules. <a href="Chapter06.xhtml#ch06">Chapter 6</a> shows how a systematic consideration of the symmetry of molecules can be used to discuss the bonding and structure of molecules and help interpret data from some of the techniques described in <a href="Chapter08.xhtml#ch08">Chapter 8</a>. <a href="Chapter07.xhtml#ch07">Chapter 7</a> describes the coordination compounds of the elements. We discuss bonding, structure, and reactions of complexes, and see how symmetry considerations can provide useful insight into this important class of compounds. <a href="Chapter08.xhtml#ch08">Chapter 8</a> provides a toolbox for inorganic chemistry: it describes a wide range of the instrumental techniques that are used to identify and determine the structures and compositions of inorganic compounds.</p>
</div>

</section>
</body>
</html>