<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p><a id="page_v" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page v, Preface</a></p>
<p class="fmtitle"><b>Preface</b></p>
<p class="noindent">Our aim in the sixth edition of <i>Inorganic Chemistry</i> is to provide a comprehensive and contemporary introduction to the diverse and fascinating subject of inorganic chemistry. Inorganic chemistry deals with the properties of all of the elements in the periodic table. These elements range from highly reactive metals, such as sodium, to noble metals, such as gold. The nonmetals include solids, liquids, and gases, and range from the aggressive oxidizing agent fluorine to unreactive gases such as helium. Although this variety and diversity are features of any study of inorganic chemistry, there are underlying patterns and trends which enrich and enhance our understanding of the discipline. These trends in reactivity, structure, and properties of the elements and their compounds provide an insight into the landscape of the periodic table and provide a foundation on which to build a detailed understanding.</p>
<p class="indent">Inorganic compounds vary from ionic solids, which can be described by simple applications of classical electrostatics, to covalent compounds and metals, which are best described by models that have their origin in quantum mechanics. We can rationalize and interpret the properties and reaction chemistries of most inorganic compounds by using qualitative models that are based on quantum mechanics, such as atomic orbitals and their use to form molecular orbitals. Although models of bonding and reactivity clarify and systematize the subject, inorganic chemistry is essentially an experimental subject. New inorganic compounds are constantly being synthesized and characterized through research projects especially at the frontiers of the subject, for example, organometallic chemistry, materials chemistry, nanochemistry, and bioinorganic chemistry. The products of this research into inorganic chemistry continue to enrich the field with compounds that give us new perspectives on structure, bonding, reactivity, and properties.</p>
<p class="indent">Inorganic chemistry has considerable impact on our everyday lives and on other scientific disciplines. The chemical industry is strongly dependent on it. Inorganic chemistry is essential to the formulation and improvement of modern materials such as catalysts, semiconductors, optical devices, energy generation and storage, superconductors, and advanced ceramics. The environmental and biological impacts of inorganic chemistry are also huge. Current topics in industrial, biological, and sustainable chemistry are mentioned throughout the book and are developed more thoroughly in later chapters.</p>
<p class="indent">In this new edition we have refined the presentation, organization, and visual representation. All of the book has been revised, much has been rewritten, and there is some completely new material. We have written with the student in mind, including some new pedagogical features and enhancing others.</p>
<p class="indent">The topics in Part 1, <i>Foundations</i>, have been updated to make them more accessible to the reader with more qualitative explanation accompanying the more mathematical treatments. Some chapters and sections have been expanded to provide greater coverage, particularly where the fundamental topic underpins later discussion of sustainable chemistry.</p>
<p class="indent">Part 2, <i>The elements and their compounds</i>, has been substantially strengthened. The section starts with an enlarged chapter which draws together periodic trends and cross references forward to the descriptive chapters. An enhanced chapter on hydrogen, with reference to the emerging importance of the hydrogen economy, is followed by a series of chapters traversing the periodic table from the s-block metals through the p block to the Group 18 gases. Each of these chapters is organized into two sections: <i>The essentials</i> describes the fundamental chemistry of the elements and <i>The detail</i> provides a more thorough, in-depth account. This is followed by a series of chapters discussing the fascinating chemistry of the d<i>-</i>block and, finally, the f-block elements. The descriptions of the chemical properties of each group of elements and their compounds are enriched with illustrations of current research and applications. The patterns and trends that emerge are rationalized by drawing on the principles introduced in Part 1.</p>
<p class="indent">Part 3, <i>Frontiers</i>, takes the reader to the edge of knowledge in several areas of current research. These chapters explore specialized subjects that are of importance to industry, materials science, and biology, and include catalysis, solid state chemistry, nanomaterials, metalloenzymes, and inorganic compounds used in medicine.</p>
<p><a id="page_vi" class="page" style="width:70%;">page vi, Preface</a></p>
<p class="indent">We are confident that this text will serve the undergraduate chemist well. It provides the theoretical building blocks with which to build knowledge and understanding of inorganic chemistry. It should help to rationalize the sometimes bewildering diversity of descriptive chemistry. It also takes the student to the forefront of the discipline with frequent discussion of the latest research in inorganic chemistry and should therefore complement many courses taken in the later stages of a programme.</p>
</body>
</html>