<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">In this short book I have attempted to bring together into the single category of &#x2018;polar rearrangements&#x2019; those rearrangements which involve charge-separated intermediates or transition states. My aim has been to highlight basic principles and mechanistic similarities in order to facilitate comprehension of the various reaction types. Wherever possible, illustrative examples are taken from the areas of natural product chemistry or total synthesis to emphasize the relevance of the reactions for the organic chemist. Details of the discovery and mechanistic elucidation of the rearrangements have also been included to provide a historical background. The exercises at the end of each chapter have been designed to reinforce the various points discussed in the body of the text and I have included brief marginal notes to explain new technical terms as they appear. In this way I have tried to encapsulate the major features of all of the important polar rearrangements in one small book at a level which should make the contents accessible to students approaching this area for the first time. For those wishing to delve deeper than permitted by the confines of this work &#x2014; and I hope that many will be stimulated to do just that&#x2014; there are references to monographs and major reviews in the &#x2018;Further reading&#x2019; sections which close each chapter.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I dedicate this book to Maureen, Mickle, and Spida, the three ladies in my life; the former for her inexhaustible love and support, the other two for purring all of the time, and all three for making life so delightful. I would also express my thanks to Sue Anslow who helped with proof-reading and to Steve Davies for convincing me to undertake what turned out to be a very enjoyable project.</p>

<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Oxford</i>	<span style="float:right">L.M.H</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">August 1991</p>
</body>
</html>
