<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Introduction to molecular symmetry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_46" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 46, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Brown, H.C. and Jadhav, P.K. (1983). Asymmetric hydroboration. In Asymmetric synthesis (ed. J.D. Morrison), Vol. 2, pp 1-43. Academic Press, Orlando, Florida.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Brown, H.C., Negishi, E., and Zaidlewicz, M. (1982). Organoborane compounds in organic synthesis. In <i>Comprehensive organometallic chemistry</i> (ed. G. Wilkinson, F.G.A. Stone, and E.W. Abel), Vol.7, pp 111-363. Pergamon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Evans, D.A., Nelson, J.V., and Taber, T.R. (1982) Stereoselective aldol condensations. <i>Topics in Stereochemistry</i>, <b>13</b>, 1-115.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Hoffman, R.W. (1982). Diastereogenic addition of crotylmetal compounds to aldehydes. <i>Angewandte Chemie, International Edition in English</i>, <b>21</b>, 555-566.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Masamune, S., Choy, W., Peterson, J.S., and Sita, L.R. (1985). Double asymmetric synthesis and a new strategy for stereochemical control in organic synthesis. <i>Angewandte Chemie, International Edition in English,</i> <b>24</b>, 1-30.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Matteson, D.S. (1989). The use of chiral organoboranes in organic synthesis. <i>Synthesis</i>, 973-985.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Matteson, D.S. (1989). Boronic esters in stereodirected synthesis. Tetrahedron Report No. 250, <i>Tetrahedron</i>, <b>45</b>, 1859-1885.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Pelter, A., Smith, K., and Brown, H.C. (1988). <i>Borane reagents.</i> Academic Press, London.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Ramachandran, P.V. and Srebnik, M. (1987). The utility of chiral organoboranes in the preparation of optically active compounds. <i>Aldrichimica Acta</i>, <b>20</b>, 9-24.</p>
</body>
</html>