<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_91" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 91, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Colvin, E.W. (1981). <i>Silicon in organic synthesis</i>. Butterworths, London. [Revised edition, Krieger Press, Florida, 1985.]</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Magnus, P.D., Sarkar, T., and Djuric, S. (1982). Organosilicon compounds in organic synthesis. In <i>Comprehensive organometallic chemistry</i>, (ed. G. Wilkinson, F.G.A. Stone, and E.W. Abel), Vol. 7, pp. 515&#x2013;659. Pergamon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Fleming, I. (1979) Organic silicon chemistry. In <i>Comprehensive organic chemistry</i>, (ed. D.H.R. Barton and W.D. Ollis), Vol. 3, pp. 541&#x2013;659. Pergamon Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Colvin, E.W. (1988) Silicon reagents in organic synthesis. Academic Press, London.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Brook, A.G. (1974). Some molecular rearrangements of organosilicon compounds. <i>Accounts of Chemical</i>. <i>Res</i>earch, <b>7</b>, 77&#x2013;84.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Lalonde, M. and Chan, T.H. (1985). Use of organosilicon reagents as protective groups in organic synthesis. <i>Synthesis</i>, 817&#x2013;845.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Brownbridge, P. (1983). Silyl enol ethers in synthesis. <i>Synthesis</i>, 1&#x2013;28 and 85&#x2013;104.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Ager, D.J. (1984). The Peterson reaction. <i>Synthesis</i>, 384&#x2013;398.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Ricci, A. and Degl&#x2019;Innocenti, A. (1989). Synthesis and synthetic potential of acylsilanes. <i>Synthesis</i>, 647&#x2013;660.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;">Bulman Page, P.C., Klair, S.S., and Rosenthal, S. (1990). Synthesis and chemistry of acylsilanes. <i>Chemical Society Rev</i>iews, <b>19</b>, 147&#x2013;195.</p>
</body>
</html>