<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">A basic understanding of the quantum theory is essential in many areas of chemistry, especially in connection with spectroscopy and with theories of atomic and molecular structure. The present book gives an introduction to the theory, and its application to elementary atomic structure, but chemical bonding is not discussed. I have tried to put the essential ideas in their historical context, but without retaining the &#x2018;historical introduction&#x2019; which has been traditional with this topic. With the crucial and difficult concepts of wave&#x2013;particle duality, it seemed to me more important to give modern illustrations to show that they have current applications in chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Recognizing that many chemistry students do not have a strong background in physics, I have introduced most of the chapters with some essential physics, concerning waves, mechanics, and electrostatics. I have also tried to keep the mathematical level at a minimum, consistent with a proper understanding of what is necessary. Basic calculus and an understanding of the properties of elementary trigonometical and exponential functions are assumed but I have not used complex numbers. Each chapter ends with some simple problems.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to thank the series editor, Richard Compton, for his invitation to write this book, and for his useful comments on the first draft. A number of other colleagues were also very helpful: John Foord and Tony Orchard for comments on the draft; and Peter Battle, Russ Egdell, and Frances Jones for providing some of the illustrations used in <a href="Chapter01.xhtml">Chapters 1</a> and <a href="Chapter02.xhtml">2</a>.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><span class="italic"><i>Oxford</i></span></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">P.A.C.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">April 1995</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>