<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Organometallic chemistry has rapidly increased in importance over the past few decades and is now a firm part of any chemistry curriculum. It is fundamental to our understanding of catalysis and is becoming increasingly important for the development of new synthetic methods and materials. This volume, the first of two parts, sets out the most important structural principles in what might at first appear a bewildering variety of compounds and introduces some of the major classes of organometallic transition metal complexes: metal carbonyls, metal alkyls, and alkylidenes and alkylidynes. <i>Organometallics 2</i> will cover 71- complexes. Both booklets are intended to complement current general textbooks on inorganic chemistry which are often unable to cover this area of chemistry adequately.</p>
<p class="fmindent">In each chapter, the most pertinent synthetic methods are illustrated by typical examples, followed by an outline of characteristic reactivity patterns which, it is hoped, will allow students to develop a feel for the synthetic potential of this chemistry. Variety in the text is provided by highlighted sections which either draw attention to a particular general principle of reactivity or structure, or form an excursion into important applications, in particular in homogeneous catalysis and organic synthesis. While references to the primary literature could not be included, brief bibliographies will lead the reader to more comprehensive reviews and reference texts.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em"><i>Norwich</i>	<span style="float:right"><b>M.B.</b></span><br/>
November 1992</p>
</body>
</html>
