<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>3 Environmental and regulatory issues</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
<script src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML">
</script>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3">
<a id="page_12" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 12, 3 Environmental and regulatory issues</a>
<h1 class="main">3<span class="space">&#160;</span>Environmental and regulatory issues</h1>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.1">
<h2 class="h2">3.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h2>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:2em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The quality of a pharmaceutical product intended for human use must be at least as good as that used in animal tests.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">The escalating cost of developing a new drug or agrochemical product and the highly competitive nature of the business have led to greater pressure to reduce the time between discovery and marketing (when the new product starts to earn money). Fine chemical manufacturers must satisfy conditions imposed by environmental and regulatory authorities&#8212;groups whose interests often seem opposed. For example, regulatory authorities demand strict control over bulk drug manufacture and any synthetic route or process changes must be approved before they can be implemented. The objective of this is to safeguard the consumer by ensuring the quality and hence safety of the product is not compromised. On the other hand the objective of environmental legislation is to protect the general public by controlling pollution and the generation of harmful waste. This leads to pressure to introduce environmentally friendly processes as quickly as possible. Failure to comply with environmental laws can lead to punishment and withdrawal of the licence to manufacture. The process development chemist needs an appreciation of these problems when developing a route suitable for large-scale manufacture.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.2">
<h2 class="h2">3.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Environmental issues</h2>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.2.1">
<h3 class="h3">3.2.1 Transport of materials</h3>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:0em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">Legislation varies from country to country and is subject to rapid change.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">Legislation controls the movement of bulk chemicals within developed countries. Permission to transport materials may require a notification involving the provision of toxicity data. For any new substance not already registered, generation of the toxicity data can be costly and, more importantly, may take several months. These factors must be considered carefully and included in the timetable when plans are made for large scale manufacture. Such considerations might restrict the choice of raw material or supply of an intermediate from contract manufacture.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.2.2">
<a id="page_13" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 13, 3 Environmental and regulatory issues</a>
<h3 class="h3">3.2.2 Pollution control</h3>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:6em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The condensed liquid may be suitable for re-use in the process.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">Chemical production plants are subject to increasingly stringent controls regarding pollution; and the climate is moving closer towards one of total containment. For example, if an intermediate or product wet with an organic solvent is dried in a conventional manner (i.e. in an oven or with hot nitrogen) the solvent evaporates. In a typical chemical plant this might result in the escape of many hundreds of tonnes per annum of solvent vapour into the atmosphere. Whilst this practice may have been acceptable in the past, legislation now requires that steps should be taken to prevent the release of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). This can be achieved for example by eliminating the drying process or by introducing new equipment which will condense or trap the vapour before it escapes. Such constraints test the ingenuity of chemist, chemical engineer, and plant manager.</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.2.2.1">
<h4 class="h4"><i>3.2.2.1 Waste minimisation</i></h4>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:4em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) of a compound gives an indication of its environmental impact.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">In a chemical process, waste is anything that is not the required product. Chemical plants produce several types of waste: solid, liquid (aqueous and organic), and gaseous. The traditional outlet for solid waste has been burial in special landfill sites but increasingly this is seen to be undesirable because of the long-term risk of polluting water supplies. Organic liquid waste has the potential for recovery of the solvent by distillation but can also be disposed of by incineration. From the manufacturer&#x2019;s point of view aqueous effluent is ideally discharged directly to a river, the sea, or the sewage works but this requires a carefully controlled low level of impurities. Many metals (e.g. copper, chromium, and zinc) and halogenated solvents (e.g. chloroform) are very toxic to aquatic life and must be removed from aqueous effluent. Some organic products (e.g. antibacterials) are toxic to the bacteria essential for digestion of waste and therefore can have a catastrophic effect on sewage treatment processes. Reactive gaseous effluent (e.g. hydrogen chloride) can be removed by passing through an absorption tower containing sodium hydroxide solution. On the other hand the evolution of an inert gas from a reaction mixture can be more troublesome. For example, nitrous oxide is a by-product frequently encountered in the use of azides yet it has a potent &#x2018;greenhouse&#x2019; effect so the release of large quantities to the atmosphere is undesirable. In this case special techniques (e.g. catalytic oxidation) and costly equipment may be needed.</p>
<p class="indent">When considering the environmental impact of a process it is useful to assign numerical values. The Effluent Load Factor is defined as the amount of waste from a reaction per unit weight of product, i.e.</p>
<p class="equ"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><mrow><mtext>ELF=</mtext><mfrac><mrow><mtext>Weight</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>of</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>all</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>ingredients</mtext><mo>&#x2212;</mo><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>Weight</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>of</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>product</mtext></mrow><mrow><mtext>Weight</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>of</mtext><mtext>&#x2009;</mtext><mtext>product</mtext></mrow></mfrac></mrow></math></p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:0em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The cumulative ELF for a synthesis is the sum of the ELF multiplied by the usage factor for each stage. The usage factor is the weight (kg) of stage intermediate required to make 1kg of final product.</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">In an ideal situation the ELF for a chemical process should be zero but this would require no net usage of solvent, no reagents, and 100% yield of isolated product&#8212;conditions rarely if ever achieved in fine chemicals manufacture! In the bulk chemical industry (e.g. oil refining) the process ELF may be &#60;1. On the other hand, for a pharmaceutical product made by a<a id="page_14" class="page">Page 14, 3 Environmental and regulatory issues</a> multi-stage synthesis the ELF is likely to be of the order of 100. The latter figure reflects yield loss at each stage, the use of solvents and reagents. It will be the aim of the process development chemist to minimise the ELF for his process.</p>
<p class="indent">The nature of waste from a chemical reaction needs to be considered. A small quantity of highly toxic waste may cause a more serious disposal problem than a much larger amount of relatively harmless effluent.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.2.2.2">
<h4 class="h4"><i>3.2.2.2 Recovery of solvents</i></h4>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:2em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">Solvents which form an azeotropic mixture (i.e. with a constant boiling point ) are impossible to separate by distillation.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">One way of minimising process waste is to recover or recycle the solvent. Solvent recovery usually requires distillation so that the distillate is of sufficient purity to be reused directly but this is not always a feasible option. Some solvents (such as <i>N, N</i>-dimethylformamide and dimethyl sulphoxide) are not easy to recover by distillation especially if they have been contaminated with water during the reaction! The use of mixed solvents in a process is not conducive to solvent recovery unless the components differ widely in their boiling points and can be separated easily by distillation. Hence the process development chemist will try to devise a process which uses a single solvent.</p>
<p class="indent">Recycling of solvent without purification by distillation can be appropriate in the case of a recrystallisation. However, the impact of increasing impurity levels with each cycle of use must be examined carefully to ensure that there is no deterioration in product quality.</p>
</section>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch3.3">
<h2 class="h2">3.3<span class="space">&#160;</span>Regulatory constraints</h2>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:0em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">From discovery to product launch normally takes at least seven years.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">Before a new drug can be tested in patients, or marketed, it must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authority in the country concerned. Approval is achieved by submitting data from toxicity trials which supports safe use of the product. Regulatory submissions contain details of bulk drug manufacture and the level of detail required at each stage of the development process increases as the product moves towards launch The USA is generally the largest market for any new drug and most pharmaceutical companies will compile a package of information aimed at satisfying the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-left:2em; margin-top:0em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The regulatory authorities may inspect chemical plant used to manufacture bulk drug and production records.</p>
</aside>
<p class="indent">The application to sell a drug must contain details of the processes used in the manufacture (e.g. temperature, solvent, and reagent stoichiometry). Any change to the process conditions usually requires approval from the regulatory authority. This may involve the need for repeated toxicity studies or studies to prove bioequivalence of material made by the new process. The onus is on the manufacturer to ensure that any process change does not alter the impurity profile of the final product or generate a new polymorph with different bioavailability. Hence, the chemist is under pressure to solve synthetic problems as early as possible in the development timetable to avoid costly delays caused by the need for additional studies.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>