<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>1 Introduction</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1">
<a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 1, 1 Introduction</a>
<h1 class="main">1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h1>
<p class="noindent">This book is intended as a general introduction to fine chemicals manufacture and a guide to the principles and practice of process development. The emphasis is on relatively small-scale manufacture of fine organic compounds, on a scale of up to tens or occasionally hundreds of kilograms. It is not concerned with the complex problems of multi-ton manufacture of bulk organic compounds such as ethylene and other petrochemicals.</p>
<p class="indent">The principles are illustrated in later chapters of this book using examples drawn from experiences within ICI (and latterly within Zeneca Pharmaceuticals). This allows the processes and rationale to be described in detail. In restricting the case histories to a narrow personal area the authors are conscious of ignoring the vast amount of excellent process development performed in other parts of ICI and Zeneca and other companies. The developed processes are not necessarily unique solutions to the problems. To some extent they reflect the culture, philosophy, availability of equipment and raw materials within this company together with the initiative and resourcefulness of the process development chemists. It is quite probable that chemists in other companies would have found different solutions to the same problems.</p>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.1">
<h2 class="h2">1.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Research method</h2>
<p class="noindent">The boundary between research and development is difficult to define in practice. Usually the trigger for development to start is when a compound has been identified as having desirable properties e.g. a herbicide, pharmaceutical agent or other &#x2018;effect chemical&#x2019; and there is a potential for sales of the material. Usually the compound will have only been synthesised in relatively small quantities (e.g. a few grams) in the research laboratory using conventional laboratory glassware.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.2">
<h2 class="h2">1.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Development methods</h2>
<p class="noindent">As soon as the compound is selected for development, suddenly very much larger quantities are required for further evaluation as rapidly as possible. Not only are larger quantities needed to confirm the desired effect, but also to enable a full assessment of the toxicological properties of the compound to be made. This ensures that it will be safe for the proposed use and no adverse side effects will be observed. In the case of a proposed pharmaceutical agent some studies are necessary over a period of several years to satisfy the requirements of regulatory authorities, before a licence to sell the compound can be granted.</p>
<p class="indent">These extensive studies are expensive to conduct and also require large quantities of the proposed effect compound. Several hundred kilograms of<a id="page_2" class="page">Page 2, 1 Introduction</a> the new substance are often required. This quantity is obviously far beyond the scope of a research laboratory.</p>
<p class="indent">In the early development phase of a new compound, speed and feasibility of manufacture can be more important than overall chemical efficiency. Safety is always of paramount importance together with the environmental impact of the processes. All these factors need to be considered before operation on a scale larger than the laboratory is attempted.</p>
<p class="indent">How the large quantities are made is one question which this book will attempt to answer.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>