<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Oscillations, waves, and chaos in chemical kinetics</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_91" class="page">Page 91, Further Reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Further Reading</b></h1>
<h2 class="h2"><b>Review articles</b></h2>
<p class="fmindenthang">De Kepper, P., Boissonade, J., and Epstein, I.R. (1990). Chlorite-iodide reaction: a versatile system for the study of nonlinear dynamical behaviour. <i>Journal of Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>94</b>, 6525&#x2013;36</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Epstein, LR., Kustin, K., De Kepper, P., and Orban, M. (1983). Oscillatory chemical reactions. <i>Scientific American</i>, <b>248</b>, 96&#x2013;108.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Epstein, I.R. (1984). Complex dynamical behavior in &#x2018;simple&#x2019; chemical systems. <i>Journal of Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>88</b>, 187&#x2013;92</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Gray, P. and Scott, S.K. (1985). Sustained oscillations and other exotic patterns of behavior in isothermal reactions. <i>Journal of Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>89</b>, 22&#x2013;32.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Noyes, R.M. (1990). Mechanisms of some chemical oscillators. <i>Journal of Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>94</b>, 4404&#x2013;12.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Rabai, P., Orban, M., and Epstein, I.R. (1990). Design of pH-regulated oscillators. <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i>, <b>23</b>, 258&#x2013;63</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Ruoff, P., Koros, E., and Varga, M. (1988). How bromate oscillators are controlled. <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i>, <b>21</b>, 326&#x2013;31.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Scott, S.K. (1987). Oscillations in simple models of chemical systems. <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i>, <b>20</b>, 186&#x2013;91.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Showalter, K. and Scott, S.K. (1992). Simple and complex propagating reaction-diffusion fronts. <i>Journal of Physical Chemistry</i>, <b>96</b>, 8702&#x2013;11.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Swinney, H.L., Argoul, F., Arneodo, A., Richetti, P., and Roux, J.-C. (1987). Chemical chaos: from hints to confirmation. <i>Accounts of Chemical Research</i> <b>20</b>, 436&#x2013;42.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Tyson, J.J. and Keener, J.P. (1988). Singular perturbation theory of travelling waves in excitable media (a review). <i>Physica</i>, <b>D32</b>, 327&#x2013;61.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Winfree, A.T. (1974). Rotating chemical reactions. <i>Scientific American</i>, <b>230</b>, 82&#x2013;95.</p>
<h2 class="h2"><b>Books</b></h2>
<p class="fmindenthang">Babloyantz, A. (1986). Molecules, dynamics and life: an introduction to self-organization of matter. Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Field, R.J. and Burger, M. (eds) (1985). Oscillations and traveling waves in chemical systems. Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Gray, P. and Scott, S.K. (1990). Chemical oscillations and instabilities: non-linear chemical kinetics. Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Grindrod, P. (1991). Patterns and waves. Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Glass, L. and Mackey, M.C. (1988). From clocks to chaos: the rhythms of life. Princeton University Press, New Jersey.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Hall, N. (ed.) (1992). The new Scientist guide to chaos. Penguin, London.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Murray, J.D. (1990). Mathematical biology. Springer, Berlin.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Nicolis, G. and Prigogine, I. (1989). Exploring complexity: an introduction. Freeman, New York.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Scott, S.K. (1991). Chemical chaos. Oxford University Press.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Stewart, I. (1989). Does God play dice? Backwell, Oxford.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Winfree, A.T. (1980). The geometry of biological time. Springer, Berlin.</p>
<p class="fmindenthang">Winfree, A.T. (1987). When time breaks down. Princeton University Press, New Jersey.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>