<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Oscillations, waves, and chaos in chemical kinetics</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The subject of &#x2018;nonlinear dynamics&#x2019; and the phenomenon of chaos, in particular, has become of great interest across of wide range of scientific disciplines in recent years. Chemical kineticists have been very much involved in these developments. Chemical reactions are exemplary nonlinear systems and have provided some of the most strikingly visual experimental evidence and some of the &#x2018;neatest&#x2019; models for theoretical studies. In general, however, much of the chemical community still regards such phenomena and those who study them as mavericks. This text sets out to provide a simple introduction to the excitement and relevance of nonlinear chemical kinetics to the chemical world in general. Many examples turn out to involve old friends such as chain branching, autocatalysis and the Arrhenius temperature dependence of rate constants. These forms of &#x2018;chemical feedback&#x2019; give rise to a hierarchy of exotic behaviour from clock reactions to the most complex aperiodicities. Links to other subject areas such as combustion, biochemistry and physiology are also demonstrated.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The text was written during a period of study leave in the Department of Chemistry, at West Virginia University. It is a pleasure to thank that Department and, in particular, my host Professor Ken Showalter, for their hospitality, the School of Chemistry at University of Leeds for allowing me to take leave, and the Council for the International Exchange of Scholars (Fulbright Commission) for financial support for travel. It is also a pleasure to thank the staff at Oxford University Press for their usual professional support, and Hilary and Lucy for personal support.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>