<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv">Page_v, Preface</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">There are two rows of elements propping up the periodic table about which most graduate chemists know very little. Some may have come across the lanthanide contraction and may be aware of its consequences for the chemistry of the d block. Others may have met the sandwich molecule uranocene in courses on organometallic chemistry. It is also possible that the unique magnetic and spectroscopic properties of these elements were encountered at the end of a physical chemistry lecture series. This piecemeal treatment is unfortunate as the lanthanides are finding increasing technological and catalytic applications, and the concern over the growing quantities of actinide waste littering the globe is well founded. Our graduates ought to know more about the f elements.</p>
<p class="fmindent">In this text we have drawn together key concepts in f element chemistry to provide a student-friendly introduction to this fascinating group of elements. The traditional approach adopted in the few existing texts on the f elements is to treat each element in turn. The very nature of the lanthanides and actinides as <i>families</i> of elements with similar properties means that this involves considerable repetition. We have chosen instead to concentrate on the trends within the two series and the comparisons between them and the other elements of the periodic table. We hope that we have provided a collection of concepts to be applied rather than facts to be memorised. The material is targetted at third or fourth year undergraduates, and will put to use many of the skills developed in earlier years and indeed in other Primers.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We would like to thank Andrea Sella for casting a critical eye over the entire manuscript, and Geoff Cloke, Bob Denning, Peter Moore, David Parker, and John Watkin for helpful comments on various sections. We also want to thank J and N for their uniquely special contributions.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">NK</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">PS</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">London</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">Warwick</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">January 1999</td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>