<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv">Page_v, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The f elements have tended to be relatively neglected in inorganic chemistry courses in recent years, in spite of their intrinsic interest and technological importance. A contributing cause has been the lack of an up-to-date text on this field, which has been studied less than the d block elements by inorganic chemists in recent years. This Primer is aimed at that gap. Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually form an 8-10 lecture course. As well as providing up-to-date information, this series expresses the explanations and rationales that form the framework of current understanding of inorganic chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Nik Kaltsoyannis and Peter Scott have provided a timely synopsis of f element chemistry, covering standard complex chemistry, their electronic and magnetic properties and also organometallic chemistry. The complementary skills of these two authors have given an authority to this wide scope. Companion books covering the Heavy Transition Elements (OCP73) and the First row transition metals (OCP71) have preceeded this volume and this suite gives excellent coverage of the whole of transition element chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmattribute">John Evans<br/>
<i>Department of Chemistry,</i><br/>
<i>University of Southampton</i></p>
</body>
</html>