<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Photochemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_89" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 89, Further Reading</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Further Reading</b></h1>
<p class="bmnoindent">The first book is a classic detailed text that remains an important handbook for practising photochemists; the second two-volume work provides updated material. <i>Principles and applications of photochemistry</i> by one of the present authors is a rather more advanced treatment than this <i>Primer</i>. The next two books emphasize the way in which photochemistry is harnessed by nature and by Man. Barltrop and Coyle explain particularly clearly the behaviour of excited states and why it differs from that of ground states. The other texts are listed in alphabetical order, and represent just a selection of alternative, and more detailed, approaches to various aspects of our subject.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:0.5em;">J.G. Calvert and J.N. Pitts, Jr. <i>Photochemistry.</i> Wiley, New York, 1966.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">J.C. Scaiano, ed. <i>CRC handbook of organic photochemistry, Vols I, II</i>. CRC Press, Boca Raton, Fl, 1989.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">R. P. Wayne. <i>Principles and applications of photochemistry</i>. Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1988.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">J. D. Coyle, R. R. Hill and D. R. Roberts, eds. <i>Light, chemical change and life</i>. Open University, Milton Keynes, 1982.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">P. Suppan. <i>Chemistry and light</i>. Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge, 1994.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">J. A. Barltrop and J.D. Coyle. <i>Excited states in organic chemistry</i>. Wiley, London, 1975.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">J.M. Coxon and B. Halton. <i>Organic photochemistry</i>. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1987.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">J.D. Coyle. <i>Introduction to organic photochemistry</i>. Wiley, Chichester, 1986.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">A. Gilbert and J.E. Baggott. <i>Essentials of molecular photochemistry</i>. Blackwell Scientific, Oxford, 1991.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">W. M. Horspool and D. Annesto. <i>Organic photochemistry: a comprehensive treatment</i>. Ellis Horwood, New York, London, 1992.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">H. Okabe. <i>Photochemistry of small molecules</i>. Wiley, New York, 1978.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">R. Schinke. <i>Photodissociation dynamics</i>. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1993.</p>
<p class="bmnoindent" style="margin-bottom:0.5em;">N. J. Turro. <i>Modern molecular photochemistry</i>. University Science Books, Mill Valley, Ca., 1991.</p>
</div>
</body>
</html>