<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Photochemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">When visible or ultraviolet light is absorbed by a molecule, the result may be that the molecule behaves as though it is an entirely new species, with chemical properties that are distinct from those of its parent. Absorption in different wavelength regions may lead to different behaviour. The interaction of light with matter thus gives access to an enormously rich extension of &#x2018;dark&#x2019; chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The new chemistry is one aspect of the field of photochemistry. Photochemistry also provides some fascinating insights into the way in which chemical reactions occur. But the subject has an importance far beyond the study just of chemistry. Life itself depends on photochemical processes. Photosynthesis, in which energy from the sun is harnessed by living organisms, is an obvious example. Our atmosphere, which supports life and shields us from damaging ultraviolet radiation, has its composition determined by photochemistry. Photochemistry also finds applications in many of Man&#x2019;s endeavours, including photography, photopolymerization, the production of photodegradable polymers, and the synthesis of organic chemicals; an exciting and developing area is the use of photochemistry to provide novel medical treatments. Photochemistry in nature and the applications of photochemistry are topics emphasized in this book in order to give relevance to understanding the principles of our subject.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We wish to thank Pete Biggs for the enormous help he gave us in preparing many of the diagrams for the book. His skilled efforts are much appreciated.</p>
<table style="margin-top:1em; width:100%;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:left;"><i>Oxford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:right;">C.E.W.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:left;">July 1995</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top; text-align:right;">R.P.W.</td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
</body>
</html>