<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This Oxford Chemistry Primer and the sibling text <i>Foundations of physical chemistry</i> (OCP 40) seek to develop a foundation in physical chemistry suitable for students commencing university courses in chemistry and allied subjects. It aims to link some material familiar from school studies (Advanced Level) with a selection of essential ideas usually encountered early in the freshman year. The first two chapters consider the structure of atoms and molecules. <a href="Chapter03.xhtml">Chapters 3</a>, <a href="Chapter04.xhtml">4</a> and <a href="Chapter05.xhtml">5</a> discuss chemical reactivity through energetics, kinetics and equilibria. <a href="Chapter06.xhtml">Chapter 6</a> gives a brief insight into a few more advanced areas. We hope that the book will be accessible and stimulating to those studying Advanced Level chemistry whilst providing a sound basis for university work. Some more challenging material is additionally included for which, while in the bulk of the text the mathematical aspects of the subject have been minimized as far as is consistent with clarity, an elementary knowledge of calculus is utilised.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We thank all those who have so generously given us much valuable constant criticism and advice. We also thank those who suggested problems from their own spheres of teaching: Don Bethell (Liverpool University), Robert Dryfe (UMIST), Julie Macpherson (Warwick University) and Jason Riley (Bristol University). We also express our appreciation to those who have helped in diverse other ways not least in the wordprocessing aspects: Frank Marken, Jon Ball, Marco Fidel-Su&#x00E1;rez, Kelvin Lawrence and Rita Wadhawan. However, above all we thank John Freeman who constructed all the diagrams in this primer. His artistic talents and patience are hugely admired.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:left;">July 23, 1998</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">N. S. L.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:left;"><i>Oxford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">J. D. W.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:left;">&#160;</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">R. G. C.</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>