<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The characteristic properties of functional groups and the methods for interconverting them are the foundations of organic chemistry; a sound grasp of these topics is essential for the aspiring chemist&#x2019;s journey to the higher levels of the subject.</p>   
<p class="fmindent">It is probably in the field of synthesis that the importance of functional group interconversion shows up most clearly. The approaches to new compounds (required, perhaps, for their physiological activity) involve many stages in which a precursor&#x2019;s functional group must be transformed into the one required for the next stage. To effect such changes efficiently is the hallmark of a successful synthesis.</p>
<p class="fmindent">All the information about functional groups is already in many excellent books and the need for a Primer may, therefore, be questioned. The modern text-books are long (ca. 1000 pages); they contain the functional group material and a great deal more! A student wanting information on say, ketones is faced with twenty or more page references, and to wade through these without guidance is a daunting or even an overwhelming task. The object here is to anticipate this difficulty by presenting the chemistry of the groups in a <i>concise </i>and <i>systematic </i>form.</p>
<p class="fmindent">To deal with functional groups in so short a compass as the present one necessitates difficult decisions about what must be included and what may be omitted, even though reluctantly. The present selection has been formed by experience in giving the first year lecture course; I am grateful to the undergraduates for many helpful comments and particularly to the Keble chemists with whom I enjoyed a rewarding relationship as their Tutor for many years.</p>
<p class="fmindent">A colleague of long standing, Dr A. S. Bailey (Emeritus Fellow of St Peter&#x2019;s College), kindly read the first draft, spotted mistakes and made many helpful suggestions. I am grateful for his encouragement and generous support.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Oxford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">G. D. M</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">May 1996</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;"></td></tr></table></body></html>
