<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>1 Introduction</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>

</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1">
<h1 class="main">1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Introduction</h1>
<a id="page_1" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 1, Introduction</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.1">
<h2 class="h2">1.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>Electroanalysis, its scope and role in analytical chemistry</h2>
<p class="noindent">Electroanalysis can be defined as the application of electrochemistry to solve real-life analytical problems, and the aim of this book is to demonstrate the different potentialities of electrochemical methodologies. Traditionally, analytical chemistry has been associated mainly with the measurement of amounts (concentrations) of elements or species. In recent years there has been a tendency, aided by the development of more sophisticated techniques, to combine identification with quantification and, in some cases, to obtain other time-dependent information on kinetics of degradation, uptake by organisms, etc. simultaneously with quantitative measurements. Each analytical technique has a specific purpose and range of application, and care must be taken to choose and evaluate which is the most appropriate in a given situation, as will be described below.</p>
<p class="indent">Electroanalytical measurements offer a number of important potential benefits which may or may not be realisable in given situations:</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<ol class="none1">
<li style="width:69%;">(a)<span class="space">&#160;</span>selectivity and specificity, i.e. probing of speciation, resulting from the applied potential</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(b)<span class="space">&#160;</span>selectivity resulting from choice of electrode material</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(c)<span class="space">&#160;</span>high sensitivity and low detection limit resulting from the use of complex applied potential programmes</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(d)<span class="space">&#160;</span>possibility of giving results in real time, or close to real time, particularly in flow systems for on-line monitoring</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(e)<span class="space">&#160;</span>application, as miniaturised sensors, in situations where other sensors may not be usable</li>
</ol>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="indent">Naturally, the principal criterion is that the species which it is desired to measure should react directly (or indirectly through coupled reactions) at, or be adsorbed onto, the electrode. Electroanalytical measurements can only be carried out in situations in which the medium between the two electrodes making up the electrical circuit is sufficiently conducting. In general, this means the liquid phase, although there are important exceptions based on solid-state conduction and in supercritical fluids. Nevertheless, for measurements made at zero current, the conductive path between the electrodes can be highly resistive. These constraints are the main limitations to the application of electrochemical sensors, although other more specific ones do arise in particular situations, as will become evident further on in this book.</p>
<p class="indent">Thus, electroanalysis is complementary to other forms of analysis. An often made comparison is with the widely used atomic absorption spectrometry <a id="page_2" class="page">Page 2, Introduction</a> (AAS) in its more modern versions with graphite furnace or inductively coupled plasma (ICP), which show similar detection limits to electrochemical detectors for heavy metals. However, AAS responds to the total amount of a given element; often elaborate digestion procedures are needed to prepare the sample and the measurement has to be done in the laboratory. AAS says nothing about how much exists in what oxidation state or what is the particular species, i.e. the speciation, and whether the species is labile. The electrochemical approach applied to solution samples will give a rapid answer, without digestion, as to the labile fraction of a given element in a particular oxidation state, and the experiment can be performed on-site in the field. In cases when two comparable analytical methods can be applied the type of information and the rapidity of the response will often decide the method of choice.</p>
<p class="indent">Other criteria which have to be borne in mind are linked to the cost of performing the analyses and how competent the technical operator needs to be. With present trends in computer control of analytical experiments, the level of expertise necessary in order to obtain results is becoming less. The other side of the coin is that apparently excellent, but wrong, results can be obtained by operators without sufficient background knowledge to be able to interpret correctly their raw results and know the limitations of the procedures.</p>
<p class="indent">The purpose of this book is to give the background knowledge, the elements of electrochemical techniques applied in modern-day electroanalysis and some applications in order to show the power of these techniques. This is becoming more and more important as many chemists without a training in electrochemistry or scientists in materials, industrial, biological and medical firms are beginning to use electroanalytical techniques in the laboratory.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.2">
<h2 class="h2">1.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Types of electroanalysis</h2>
<p class="noindent">There are essentially three types of electroanalytical measurement that can be performed:</p>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<ol class="none1">
<li style="width:70%;">(a)<span class="space">&#160;</span>conductimetric</li>
<li style="width:70%;">(b)<span class="space">&#160;</span>potentiometric</li>
<li style="width:70%;">(c)<span class="space">&#160;</span>amperometric and voltammetric</li>
</ol>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<p class="indent">In <i>conductimetry</i>, it is the concentration of charge which is obtained through measurement of solution resistance&#8212;this is therefore not species selective. It can, however, be useful in situations where it is necessary to ascertain, for example, whether the total ion concentration is below a certain permissible maximum level or for use as an on-line detector after separation of a mixture of ions by ion chromatography.</p>
<p class="indent">In <i>potentiometry</i>, the equilibrium potential of an indicator electrode is measured against a selected reference electrode using a high impedance voltmeter, i.e. effectively at zero current. Thus, the current path between the two electrodes can be highly resistive. If an inert redox electrode such as <a id="page_3" class="page">Page 3, Introduction</a> platinum is used as indicator electrode then its potential will be a mixed potential, the value of which is a function of all species present in solution and their concentrations. By judicious choice of electrode material, the selectivity of the response to one particular ion can be increased, in some cases with only very minimal interference in the measured potential from other ions. Such electrodes are known as ion-selective electrodes, an example being the pH electrode. Detection limits are of the order of 100 nanomoles per litre of the total concentration of the ion present in a particular oxidation state, although down to 10 picomolar differences in concentration can be measured&#8212;effectively this is a measurement of resolution and is dependent on the accuracy and precision of the external measuring circuit.</p>
<p class="indent">In <i>amperometry</i>, a fixed potential is applied to the electrode, which causes the species to be determined to react and a current to pass. If this potential is conveniently chosen, then the magnitude of the current is directly proportional to concentration. Additionally, if steady-state convection is employed, as in flowing streams, then a constant current is measured if the concentration of electroactive species is uniform. Microelectrodes also permit the attainment of steady-state currents. Detection limits in the micromolar region can be obtained.</p>
<p class="indent">More information and lower detection limits can usually be gained from the use of <i>voltammetry.</i> Here, the current is registered as a function of applied potential. In this way, several species which react at different applied potentials can be determined almost simultaneously in the same experiment without the need for any previous separation step. Very low detection limits of down to picomolar concentrations can be reached using state-of-the-art instrumentation and preconcentration of the analyte on the electrode surface. A major part of this primer will deal with voltammetric techniques, which have wide application and enable investigation of the electrode process at the same time as quantitative data are being obtained.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.3">
<h2 class="h2">1.3<span class="space">&#160;</span>General criteria for design of electrochemical experiments</h2>
<p class="noindent">A number of experimental design factors have to be considered if it is decided to perform an analytical experiment with electrochemical detection. Amongst the most important are:</p>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<ol class="none1">
<li style="width:69%;">(a)<span class="space">&#160;</span>for amperometric and voltammetric sensors, is the species electroactive within a reasonable potential range? To what extent does the addition of an inert (i.e. supporting) electrolyte (if not already present) to carry the current perturb the equilibria in solution?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(b)<span class="space">&#160;</span>for potentiometric sensors, is there an adequate electrode material, free from interferences?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(c)<span class="space">&#160;</span>can the concentration be determined with sufficient accuracy and precision?</li>
</ol>
<a id="page_4" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 4, Introduction</a>
<ol class="none1">
<li style="width:69%;">(d)<span class="space">&#160;</span>are the measurements sufficiently reliable and repeatable?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(e)<span class="space">&#160;</span>is the response time of the sensor sufficiently fast?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(f)<span class="space">&#160;</span>is there drift or diminution of sensor response with time?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(g)<span class="space">&#160;</span>is calibration simple and easy to perform?</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(h)<span class="space">&#160;</span>is the detection limit sufficiently low?</li>
</ol>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<p class="noindent">The answers to these questions depend on the technique employed, the electrode material and the electrode and cell configuration.</p>
<p class="indent">The useful potential ranges of electrode materials are determined by oxidation or reduction of the solvent (solvent decomposition), decomposition of the supporting electrolyte, electrode dissolution or formation of a layer of insulating/semiconducting substance on its surface. Electrode materials for voltammetry must conduct electrons. Thus their choice is limited to metals, other solids with metallic conductivities and good semiconductors. Usually it is also desired that the electrode material is inert in the region of potential in which the electroanalytical determination is carried out. Mercury was the first metal to be used extensively, in the form of the dropping mercury electrode; however, mercury's useful potential range is limited by its oxidation which means that, essentially, only reductions can be investigated. Thus, solid electrode materials were developed which permit oxidation reactions to be studied. These questions will be further discussed in <a href="Chapter2.xhtml">Chapter 2</a>.</p>
<p class="indent">The <i>reliability</i> and <i>repeatability</i> of experiments can be aided by assuring a constant flux of electroactive species to the electrode. This is done by using controlled convective flow over the electrode, known in such situations as a <i>hydrodynamic electrode</i>, particularly in flow streams (an example is a chromatography detector), or by creating a sufficiently high concentration gradient, as in <i>microelectrodes.</i> The additional advantage of this approach is that, because of the greater mass transport, <i>sensitivity</i> is increased and <i>detection limits</i> are lowered.</p>
<p class="indent">Detection limits can also be affected by other electrode reactions which can occur in the same potential range. The most prevalent of these, and one which interferes with the study of reduction processes, is the reduction of oxygen, since its solubility in solutions open to the atmosphere is up to 10<sup>&#8211;4</sup>M. This means that oxygen must be removed from the solution in these cases, usually by passage of an inert gas, prepurified nitrogen or argon, through the solution to diminish the oxygen partial pressure to a very low value. There are some modern voltammetric techniques which obviate the need for oxygen removal, but it is a general problem which must be considered.</p>
<p class="indent">The poisoning of electrode surfaces has been one of the main limitations to the widesperead use of electroanalysis by non-experts. Apart from regeneration of the surface through cleaning or polishing, there are three main ways of reducing these problems which are all being pursued at present. First, use of a suitable technique such that the time during which adsorption of the poisoning substance occurs is reduced to a minimum via reduction of the contact time of the analyte with the electrode or the time during which the potential corresponding to adsorption is applied. Secondly, making the surface of the electrode exposed to the solution incompatible with adsorption by modification <a id="page_5" class="page">Page 5, Introduction</a> or covering with a specially designed membrane. Thirdly, use of disposable electrodes which are only employed for a short period of time during which adsorption problems are negligible.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.4">
<h2 class="h2">1.4<span class="space">&#160;</span>How to choose the electroanalytical technique</h2>
<p class="noindent">A choice of electroanalytical technique only really becomes necessary when it is decided to use voltammetry and arises due to the availability of instruments which offer a wide range of techniques, related to the different types of applied potential waveform which are possible. They can be divided into three classes:</p>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<ol class="none1">
<li style="width:69%;">(a)<span class="space">&#160;</span>linear sweep methods</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(b)<span class="space">&#160;</span>step and pulse techniques</li>
<li style="width:69%;">(c)<span class="space">&#160;</span>ac voltammetric techniques (based on electrochemical impedance) together with combinations of these three classes.</li>
</ol>
<span class="space">&#160;</span>
<p class="indent">Modern electrochemical instrumentation tends to be microprocessor- controlled and so applied waveforms are, in general, digitally based without digital to analogue conversion. This has been particularly used in the application of step and pulse techniques. Linear sweep is nowadays often implemented as a step technique, consisting of a succession of small potential steps in a staircase rather than a true ramp, which can lead to erroneous results if due care is not taken. Ac voltammetry has been less used but gives equivalent information to step and pulse techniques.</p>
<p class="indent">The time-scale of the perturbation applied to the electrode can be varied considerably within each technique, which may or may not allow the attainment of equilibrium at the electrode surface. Although usually this equilibrium will lead to a larger current response, this is at the expense of any kinetic information.</p>
<p class="indent">These considerations and others must be taken into account when designing an appropriate procedure for an electroanalytical experiment.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch1.5">
<h2 class="h2">1.5<span class="space">&#160;</span>Analysis of electroanalytical data</h2>
<p class="noindent">A correct interpretation and analysis of data obtained in electroanalytical experiments is obviously crucial. It is also important to repeat measurements in order to improve precision and ensure accuracy by periodic calibration. When many factors can influence the experimental response, chemometrics can aid in deconvoluting the response. One of the most important aspects, particularly nowadays due to the increasing preoccupation with environmental levels of many species, is the detection limit. This is defined with respect to the noise level of the signals obtained, being equal to three times the standard deviation of the slope of the calibration plot (see <a href="Appendix1.xhtml">Appendix 1</a>). In this way,<a id="page_6" class="page">Page 6, Introduction</a> impressive detection limits can often be obtained, since this criterion is, in essence, a measure of the resolution of signals. In many real cases, it is of limited use owing to the fact that there are other indirectly contributing factors to the general signal profile which may vary with time, leading to a practical detection limit (i.e. down to what level can the signals for different concentrations be statistically distinguished) which may be one or even two orders of magnitude higher.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Bibliography</h2>
<p class="noindent">Some electroanalytical chemistry texts and electrochemistry texts which contain sections with emphasis on electroanalysis are given below in chronological order.</p>
<p class="hang1">R.N. Adams, <i>Electrochemistry at solid electrodes</i>, Dekker, New York, 1969.</p>
<p class="hang">A.J. Bard and L.R. Faulkner, <i>Electrochemical methods, fundamentals and applications</i>, Wiley, New York, 1980.</p>
<p class="hang">A.M. Bond, <i>Modern polarographic methods in analytical chemistry</i>, Dekker, New York, 1980.</p>
<p class="hang">B.H. Vassos and G.W. Ewing, <i>Electroanalytical chemistry</i>, Wiley, New York, 1983.</p>
<p class="hang">J. Koryta, <i>Ions, electrodes and membranes</i>, Wiley, Chichester, 1991.</p>
<p class="hang">M.R. Smyth and J. Vos (eds), <i>Analytical voltammetry</i>, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1992.</p>
<p class="hang">C.M.A. Brett and A.M. Oliveira Brett, <i>Electrochemistry. Principles, methods, and applications</i>, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1993.</p>
<p class="hang">J. Wang, <i>Analytical electrochemistry</i>, VCH, New York, 1994.</p>
<p class="hang">D.T. Sawyer, A. Sobkowiak and J.L. Roberts, <i>Experimental electrochemistry for chemists,</i> 2<sup>nd</sup> edn, Wiley, New York, 1995.</p>
<p class="hang">P.T. Kissinger and W.R. Heineman (eds), <i>Laboratory techniques in electroanalytical chemistry</i>, 2<sup>nd</sup> edn, Dekker, New York, 1996.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Texts treating more specific aspects of electroanalysis are:</p>
<p class="hang1">F. Vydra, K. Stulik and E. Julakova, <i>Electrochemical stripping analysis</i>, Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1976.</p>
<p class="hang">J. Wang, <i>Stripping analysis: principles, instrumentation and applications,</i> VCH, Deerfield Beach, Florida, 1985.</p>
<p class="hang">R. Kalvoda (ed.), <i>Electroanalytical methods in chemical and environmental analysis</i>, Plenum, New York, 1987.</p>
<p class="hang">K. Stulik and V. Pacakova, <i>Electroanalytical measurements inflowing liquids,</i> Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1987.</p>
<p class="hang">A.P.F. Turner, I. Karube, and G.S. Wilson (eds), <i>Biosensors: fundamentals and applications</i>, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1987.</p>
<p class="hang">J. Wang, <i>Electroanalytical techniques in clinical chemistry and laboratory medicine</i>, VCH, New York, 1988.</p>
<p class="hang">A.E.G. Cass (ed.), <i>Biosensors: a practical approach</i>, IRL Press, Oxford, 1990.</p>
<a id="page_7" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 7, Introduction</a>
<p class="hang">J.P. Hart, <i>Electroanalysis of biologically important compounds</i>, Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1990.</p>
<p class="hang">T.R. Yu and G.L. Ji, <i>Electrochemical methods in soil and water research,</i> Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1993.</p>
<p class="hang">Kh. Brainina and E. Neyman, <i>Electroanalytical stripping methods</i>, Wiley, New York, 1993.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>