<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>5 Applications</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5">
<a id="page_69" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 69, Applications</a>
<h1 class="main">5<span class="space">&#160;</span>Applications</h1>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.1">
<h2 class="h2">5.1<span class="space">&#160;</span>The range of applications of electroanalysis</h2>
<p class="noindent">The objective of this chapter is to give a short overview of present developments and research in electroanalysis and its applications, together with an indication of future developments in the area. It is not possible, or indeed desirable, in a book of this kind to describe all types of modern electroanalytical procedures. Applications are particularly important in the areas of industrial, environmental and clinical analyses.</p>
<p class="indent">Present general challenges include the miniaturisation of electrochemical sensors, the reduction of their response time, their use on-line and automation&#8212;which includes solving all associated problems such as periodic calibration, electrode fouling and being sufficiently robust. To illustrate, examples will be chosen from potentiometric sensors, electrode surface modification, microelectrodes, flow systems, hyphenated techniques and bioelectroanalysis.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.2">
<h2 class="h2">5.2<span class="space">&#160;</span>Novel potentiometric sensors</h2>
<p class="noindent">The periodic or continuous measurement of activities of chemical species and their variation with time is an extremely important area of application of electrochemical sensors, as demonstrated in <a href="Chapter3.xhtml">Chapter 3</a>. The most common of these is pH measurement with glass electrodes, although species such as sodium and potassium ions are measured by potentiometric sensors.</p>
<p class="indent">Recent tendencies have been the production of selective electrode sensors which are more robust, more reliable (i.e. needing less calibration since drift of potential is lower) and can be used in an ever wider range of situations with low maintenance, including in flowing solution, plus reduction of interferences and miniaturisation.</p>
<p class="indent">Some of the most important species in biological fluids are sodium, potassium and calcium cations, and chloride and carbonate anions, which cannot be measured voltammetrically. Thus, efforts have been addressed towards improved ion-selective electrodes for these species. Potentiometric sensors based on plasticised PVC membranes doped with neutral carriers have been developed for all these ions, and others. The challenge is to miniaturise the conventional electrode sensor and, in order to make it more robust, to make what is, in practice, an all-solid-state version. This is possible with polymer membranes through construction of thick film sensors on silicon substrates. Probes can be made using photolithography, thin-film metallisation, chemical etching, etc. to construct the complete sensor. It usually has <a id="page_70" class="page">Page 70, Applications</a> micrometre dimensions, which suggests the use of multicomponent sensor arrays, although often the arrays are all fabricated to determine the same species so as to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Some of these sensors, which are not only small but also biocompatible, can be easily sterilised and used for <i>in vivo</i> monitoring.</p>
<p class="indent">The other great problem with ion-selective electrodes is that of selectivity. There is much effort in improving this relative to interfering species through adequate chemical recognition principles. For example, crown and bis-crown ether ionophores can be incorporated into polymer membranes, the recognition coming from the size of the host cavity or through specific metal-ligand interactions; an alternative with similar properties is calixarenes (phenol-formaldehyde condensates) derivatised to bind metal ions. A different route is to electropolymerise conducting polymer monomers from a solution containing the counteranion which it is desired to measure, in order to tailor the cavity size in the film to that ion.</p>
<p class="indent">Organic compounds can also influence the response of ISEs due to interaction with the membranes. For example, surfactants are added in routine analyses to enhance washing efficiency in flow systems, besides being present in many environmental samples. Although ionic surfactants have a larger influence, as would be expected, non-ionic surfactants can also have effects due to partitioning into the polymeric membrane. Such partitioning can be used to good effect, however, for measuring the concentration of large charged organic compounds: e.g. polyions such as heparin and protamine.</p>
<p class="indent">ISFET sensors have had a slow but progressive evolution. Although some membrane-type sensors described above are not much larger than ISFETs, the principle of operation is conventional. The advantage of ISFETS may be the improved signal-to-noise ratio. Naturally, there is the potential to miniaturise ISFETs further to nanometer dimensions, which is probably not possible with the other sensors. Indeed, a single chip can contain multiple sensors, include signal processing circuitry and thus lead to mass fabrication of disposable sensors.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.3">
<h2 class="h2">5.3<span class="space">&#160;</span>Surface-modified voltammetric electrode sensors</h2>
<p class="noindent">Surface modification can be done to increase electrode selectivity or to prevent fouling. There are many examples of such sensors. Fouling can arise from interfering species or from the analyte itself or its electrode reaction products, as happens with pesticides and herbicides, for example. In this section three types of modification will be chosen as examples.</p>
<p class="indent">The first involves modification by monolayer films. This can be done in the conventional way by chemical reaction of the surface. Alternatively, electrodes can be coated by self-assembled monolayers (SAMs). For example, gold electrodes may be modified by <i>n</i>-alkane thiols simply by placing the clean gold electrode in a solution containing the desired alkanethiol&#8212;this <a id="page_71" class="page">Page 71, Applications</a> leads to a well-organised, densely packed monolayer with the alkane chains arranged in a perpendicular fashion relative to the electrode. These are selective towards hydrophobic compounds such as noradrenaline and dopamine and discriminate against hydrophilic compounds such as ascorbic acid. Such SAMs are simpler to make than monolayers by the Langmuir&#8211;Blodgett technique.</p>
<p class="indent">A second type involves covering the electrode with a polymer layer. Apart from physical coating, conducting polymer layers may be grown by electropolymerisation on the surface. Various types of polymer are currently under investigation, including polymer mixtures; many have some cation or anion selectivity and can be referred to as ion-exchange polymers&#8212;an example of the former is Nafion due to its sulfonate groups. Most of them have the additional advantage that protein and surfactant adsorption is much reduced relative to the bare electrode material. Much technological effort has been devoted to making thin robust films. Sol&#8211;gel polymers in which an ionomer is entrapped with a rigid gel matrix are another possibility: for example, poly(vinylsulfonic acid) or chemically modified graphite. Inorganic polymer layers, namely clays and zeolites, are also of current interest as these show different adsorption properties towards potential analytes. Note that polymer layers can be made selective to gases in solution and also in the gas phase.</p>
<p class="indent">A third type of modified electrode involves bulk modification. Sol&#8211;gel polymers are, in effect, an example of these. Enzymes may be immobilised within polymers by mixing. Modified carbon paste electrodes may be produced by mixing with a polymer, biological compound, enzyme or tissue; the surface of porous carbon composite electrodes can be modified.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.4">
<h2 class="h2">5.4<span class="space">&#160;</span>Microelectrodes and microvolumes</h2>
<p class="noindent">The exceptional increase in the use of microelectrodes over the last two decades has had many reflections in electroanalysis. The necessity of addition of electrolyte to samples can often be bypassed; the problems of contamination are lessened. Miniaturisation, together with multicomponent detection, becomes much easier. At present, microelectrodes with submicro-metre dimensions are starting to be fabricated; if these are to be used singly, the instrumentation becomes of primary importance since the currents registered are at the picoampere level. The use of assemblies of microelectrodes all with the same function can increase the total measured current whilst retaining the particular properties of microelectrodes with respect to high concentration gradients. Microelectrodes can be employed to analyse small or large volumes of solution. In the latter case one of the big advantages can be the fact that they are very insensitive to convection. Since microelectrode are local probes, they can scan across the surface, operating as potentiometric or amperometric/voltammetric sensors, and map concentrations of species&#8212;such information can be extremely valuable in the design and optimisation of robust and reliable sensors.</p>
<a id="page_72" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 72, Applications</a>
<p class="indent">Other interesting developments include the microelectrode analogue of hydrodynamic double electrodes (<a href="Chapter2.xhtml#ch2.9">Section 2.9</a>). These can be made, for example, as interdigitated microband electrodes with alternate microbands connected together or as ring-disc electrodes. Some thick layer printed electrodes also have microelectrode array properties.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.5">
<h2 class="h2">5.5<span class="space">&#160;</span>Continuous flow and injection methods</h2>
<p class="noindent">There is no doubt that measurements in flow systems&#8212;continuous flow and injection&#8212;are an extremely important area of electroanalysis and detectors and instrumentation have been developed with this in mind. Flow permits the easy use of multicomponent detectors, either in parallel or sequentially. It is only in this way that the ideal of real-time analysis can be approached in online monitoring systems. Detectors either can be placed directly in the flow streams, or samples can be removed and injected into a carrier stream or over the detector. The result of such measurements is always information on the labile species. Usually it is this that is required but even if not, in many situations it is preferable to have a fast answer, even if it is not totally accurate, than having to wait for sample digestion.</p>
<p class="indent">Particular advantages of continuous flow methods arise, first from the fact that fresh solution is constantly being transported to the electrode surface so that there is no reagent depletion and, secondly, because there is no build-up of products since they are continuously washed away. In flow streams for on-line monitoring the fouling of the sensor can be a big problem since there is continuous contact between the electrode and fresh contaminant. Apart from the chemical modification strategies alluded to above, the flow stream can be made to pass over a microdialysis membrane which does not allow large molecules, such as proteins, to pass, and the detector is placed behind.</p>
<p class="indent">The disadvantage of continuous flow analysis systems can be the high consumption of electrolyte solution that has to be added to the sample if this is not sufficiently conducting. In such cases an alternative approach has to be adopted based on a discrete analysis, i.e. injection. A common advantage of injection techniques is that if the sample is a complex matrix, such as an effluent or a biological fluid, then the degree of contamination of the electrode surface is very small. The injection (typically 20&#8211;100 <i>&#956;</i>l) is either done into an inert electrolyte carrier stream (flow injection) or directly over the centre of the detector (batch injection analysis). The advantage of flow injection is that reagents can be added at any point before detection, but some dispersion of the sample plug will occur, which may be necessary for it to conduct. The advantage of batch injection analysis is its simplicity and, if the detector is surrounded by electrolyte, the sample (which arrives perpendicularly at the detector as a fine jet) can be measured directly without electrolyte addition; sample dispersion is essentially zero. Trace heavy metals and other species in solution can be measured in this way.</p>
<a id="page_73" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 73, Applications</a>
<p class="indent">Flow techniques are particularly important, as is the use of microelectrodes, for the determination of environmentally toxic species such as pesticides and heavy metals, usually by stripping analysis. A particular challenge is extending such procedures to real-time analyses of samples in hazardous waste sites and effluents.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.6">
<h2 class="h2">5.6<span class="space">&#160;</span>Hyphenated techniques</h2>
<p class="noindent">Hyphenated techniques involve the combination of two analytical techniques. The first part involves some sort of separation and the second the determination. There now exist many methods for the separation of components in mixtures, together with a variety of detectors. Amongst those of particular current interest are high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), including ion chromatography and supercritical fluid chromatography, and capillary electrophoresis. Separation under high pressure can be enhanced by the use of supercritical fluids such as carbon dioxide which allows whole samples from industrial and environmental matrices to be introduced into the column without any pretreatment to prevent column deactivation. Ion chromatography can now be used for separating heavy metal ions, which can give extra selectivity in stripping analysis.</p>
<p class="indent">Electrochemical detectors can provide extra selectivity compared with, for example, UV&#8211;vis detectors; they can be amperometric/voltammetric, conductometric, coulometric or potentiometric. The type of flow-through detector is usually impinging jet, tubular or thin-layer. Unfortunately, often in routine analysis, insufficient attention is paid to the problems of electrode fouling and the necessity to perform periodic routine calibrations.</p>
<p class="indent">An alternative to chromatographic separation is capillary electrophoresis, which is highly efficient and fast, and has a low operational cost. The capillaries have typical diameters in the region of 2 to 200 <i>&#956;</i>m and lengths of 10 to 100 cm, corresponding to a volume in the picolitre to nanolitre range. The open-ended capillary, filled with the sample solution, links two buffer solutions. Voltages of the order of 10 &#8211; 30 kV are applied across the ends of the capillary which leads to electrophoretic separation of the components. The detector has to be placed directly at one end of the capillary and is essentially a modified HPLC detector. It can be readily understood that the main difficulty is the exact positioning of the detector relative to the capillary. This can be solved by using an electrode much larger than the capillary diameter placed directly against the end of the capillary, by inserting a carbon fibre microelectrode into the end of the capillary or, alternatively, by depositing a metal film, which acts as an electrode, directly on to the capillary tip.</p>
<p class="indent">Other hyphenated techniques use electrochemistry to preconcentrate the analyte of interest through electrolysis. This is then stripped from the electrode and aspirated into the chamber of a spectrometer for analysis: for example, inductively coupled plasma with atomic emission or mass spectrometry or an <a id="page_74" class="page">Page 74, Applications</a> electrospray mass spectrometer. In this way the speciation advantages of electrochemistry are exploited.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch5.7">
<h2 class="h2">5.7<span class="space">&#160;</span>Bioelectroanalysis</h2>
<p class="noindent">Bioelectroanalysis is the application of electroanalysis to the determination of biological compounds.</p>
<p class="indent">Many current developments in electroanalysis involve <i>biosensors</i>. This is not only because of the many advances in the life sciences that have occurred as a result of improvements in instrumentation and techniques of many kinds, but also because many important analytes are organic or biological and much attention is paid to tailoring biosensors to specific needs, making use of their natural selectivity and specificity. In particular, a lot of effort has been devoted to glucose sensors owing to their exceptional importance for diabetics. A biosensor contains a biological sensing element that responds to the analyte, such as an enzyme, which is converted by the transducer into an electrical signal. A mediator is often placed between the sensing element and the electrode substrate to enable electron flow to or from the substrate. A problem associated with biological sensing elements is that they tend to have less stability than their inorganic analogues.</p>
<p class="indent">Potentiometric and voltammetric biosensors have been influenced by all the trends described in previous sections: surface modification, miniaturisation and use in flow systems.</p>
<p class="indent">One of the main goals is to perform <i>in vivo</i> electrochemistry, and efforts have been devoted to electrode implantation in the brain and in other tissues. One problem that remains is biocompatibility and, even when this is achieved, the natural reaction of the invaded tissue is to protect itself from the invading microelectrode.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Bibliography</h2>
<p class="noindent">Literature references to specific investigations or novel contributions will not be made here. Instead, a bibliography of journals that publish many of the exciting developments in electroanalysis is given, which the interested reader should consult.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Analyst</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Analytica Chimica Acta</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Analytical Chemistry</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Analytical Letters</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Bioelectrochemistry</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Biosensors and Bioelectronics</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Electroanalysis</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Electrochimica Acta</i></p>
<a id="page_75" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 75, Applications</a>
<p class="noindent"><i>Fresenius&#8217; Journal of Analytical Chemistry</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Journal of Electroanalytical and Interfacial Electrochemistry</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Journal of Solid State Electrochemistry</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Sensors and Actuators</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Talanta</i></p>
<p class="noindent1">Other chemistry journals also include articles on electroanalysis.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>