<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Bifunctional Compounds</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_91" class="page" style="width:70%;">page 91, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>General/mechanisms</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">J. March (1985). <i>Advanced organic chemistrty</i> (3rd edn.), Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">R. T. Morrison and R. N. Boyd (1987). <i>Organic chemistry</i> (5th edn.), Allyn &amp; Bacon, Boston.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>General/synthesis</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">W. Carruthers (1986). <i>Some modern methods of organic synthesis</i> (3rd edn.), Cambridge University Press.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">R. K. Mackie, D. M. Smith and R. A. Aitken (1982). <i>Guidebook to organic synthesis</i>(2nd edn.), Longman.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">S. G. Warren (1982). <i>Organic synthesis : the disconnection approach</i>, Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Rearrangements</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">L. M. Harwood (1992). <i>Polar rearrangements</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Asymmetric synthesis</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">R. A. Aitken and S. N. Kilenyi (1992). <i>Asymmetric synthesis</i>, Chapman &amp; Hall, London.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">A. Koskinen (1993). <i>Asymmetric synthesis of natural products</i>, Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Organoboron and organosilicon compounds</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">S. E. Thomas (1991). <i>Organic synthesis : the role of boron and silicon</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Birch reduction/aromatic compounds</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">M. Sainsbury (1992). <i>Aromatic chemistry</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Conjugate addition reactions</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">P. Perlmutter (1992). <i>Conjugate addition reactions in organic synthesis</i>, Pergamon Press, Oxford.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Protecting groups</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts (1991). <i>Protective groups in organic synthesis</i>(2nd edn.), Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">J. F. W. McOmie (1973). <i>Protective groups in organic chemistry</i>, Plenum Press.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-bottom:-0.2em;"><b>Amino acid and peptide synthesis</b></h3>
<p class="indentblock" style="width:67%;text-align:left;">J. H. Jones (1992). <i>Amino acid and peptide synthesis</i>, Oxford University Press.</p>
</body>
</html>