<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Bifunctional compounds occupy a central position in organic chemistry. They are important as starting materials for organic synthesis and as templates for studying organic reaction mechanisms. They are, for example, used as precursors for the preparation of carbocyclic and heterocyclic compounds. Furthermore, the products of synthesis and the products of nature are usually polyfunctional compounds and an understanding of the interaction between functional groups is vital to any attempt to explain or control their behaviour.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This book outlines some of the methods used to prepare bifunctional compounds and goes on to describe the chemistry of some of the more important classes. The section dealing with the preparation of bifunctional compounds provides a useful revision of the reactions of monofunctional compounds. This is in keeping with the position occupied by bifunctional compounds in most chemistry courses, namely bridging the gap between an elementary treatment of monofunctional compounds and the more advanced aspects of the subject.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The sections dealing with the chemistry of enamines, enol ethers and enolates give just a flavour of the modern methodology of organic synthesis. The chapter dealing with protecting groups is particularly relevant to the manipulation of carbohydrates and amino acids. Another important use for bifunctional compounds is as precursors for the preparation of polymers. Due to limitations of space this aspect is only briefly mentioned.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Finally, I should like to express my thanks to Dr Mike Williams and Dr Stephen Davies for reading and commenting on the first draft and for several helpful suggestions.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><i>Swansea</i></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">R.S.W</p></td></tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabled">June 1993</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabler">&#160;</p></td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>