<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Appendix B</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_89" class="page">Page_89, Appendix B</a></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain">Appendix B Further reading and general sources</h1>
<p class="noindent">Jones, J. H. (2000). The chemical synthesis of peptides: a select bibliography&#8217;, <i>J. Peptide Science</i>, <b>6</b>, 201. This bibliography lists and classifies with comment nearly 150 relevant book, key reviews, and symposium proceedings. It was originally compiled for a projected second edition of the author&#8217;s monograph listed below, which was abandoned because of the appearance of a number of excellent new books covering essentially the same material at a similar advanced level. It is a &#8216;select&#8217; bibliography&#8212;the field is so large that an exhaustive one would be at risk of self-defeat. But it is also quite wide-ranging and, it is hoped, thorough.</p>
<p class="noindent">Jones, J. [H.] (1991). <i>The chemical synthesis of peptides.</i> Oxford University Press. The first printing of the present Primer was a distillate of this monograph, which may still be found useful for the location of specific references and historical perspective, but it is now somewhat dated.</p>
<p class="noindent">Barrett, G. C. (ed.) (1985). <i>Chemistry and biochemistry of the amino acids. </i>Chapman and Hall, London.</p>
<p class="noindent">Williams, R. M. (1989). <i>Synthesis of optically active &#945;-amino acids. </i>Pergamon Press, Oxford. For an updating review, see Duthaler, R. O. (1994) <i>Tetrahedron</i>, <b>50</b>, 1539.</p>
<p class="noindent">Lloyd-Williams, D., Albericio, F., and Giralt, E. (eds.) (1997). <i>Chemical approaches to the synthesis of peptides and proteins.</i> CRC Press, Boca Raton, USA.</p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:-10.3em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">This elegant more advanced book would be by far the best next step after the present Primer.</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent"><i>Hecht, S. M. (ed.) (1998). Bioorganic Chemistry. Peptides and Proteins. OUP.</i></p>
<p class="noindent"><i>Chan, W. C. and White, P. D. (eds.) (2000). Fmoc solid phase peptide synthesis. A practical approach. OUP.</i></p>
<aside class="abc" style="margin-top:0.3em;" epub:type="sidebar">
<p class="noindent2">The spirit of what can now be called industrial peptide chemistry is now decidedly upbeat</p>
</aside>
<p class="noindent">Andersson, L., Blomberg, L., Flegel, M., Lepsa,, L., Nilsson, B., and Verlander, M. (2000). &#8216;Large-scale synthesis of peptides&#8217;, <i>Biopolymers (Peptide Science),</i> <b>55</b>, 227. This valuable review not only covers its title topic well, but also gives insights into peptide drug development and the peptide drug market generally.</p>
<p class="noindent">Loffet, A. (2002). &#8216;Peptides as drugs: is there a market?&#8217;, <i>J. Peptide Science</i>, <b>8</b>, 1. As the author makes clear, there most certainly now is a major market for &#8220;Nature&#8217;s pharmaceuticals&#8221;.</p>
</body>
</html>
