<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Metal-Metal Bonded Carbonyl Dimers and Clusters</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page_iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This text is designed in part as a companion volume to the Primer <i>Cluster molecules of the p-block elements. Metal-metal bonded carbonyl dimers and clusters</i> deals with the synthesis, structure, bonding, and reactivity of J-block metal carbonyl compounds and derivatives containing hydride, phosphine, phosphite, and organic ligands as well as clusters containing both transition metal and main group fragments. Like most areas of chemistry, this is a large one and this text is only intended to be an introduction to the field; the reader is guided to several more advanced texts and literature reviews for more in-depth explorations of metal carbonyl dimer and cluster chemistry. The bonding in clusters has been the focus of much theoretical attention over the years, and this book introduces the basics of cluster electron counting&#x2014;an adequate coverage to allow the reader to rationalize many of the polyhedral assemblies that metal atoms adopt in molecular carbonyl and derivative species. Whilst we consider the structures and bonding of some high nuclearity clusters, the discussions of reactivity focus mainly on smaller molecules for reasons of (relative) simplicity. The final section of the text provides a number of problems which aim to test knowledge of principles as well as an ability to interpret experimental data.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I should like to thank colleagues for time spent in proof-reading. As always, my thanks go to my husband, Edwin Constable, for his help and comments during writing and for his critical views of cluster chemistry which, although infuriating, help focus my attention on the less rational aspects of the topic. Philby and Isis have, as ever, played more than a small role&#x2014;to them I dedicate this work.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="attribute"><span class="italic">Basel</span><br/>January 1996</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="fmattribute">C.E.H.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</div>
</body>
</html>