<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Sample</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent"><a class="page" id="page_v">Page_v, Preface</a></p>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">This book has been written to bridge the gap between organic chemistry at school and at university, to stimulate the interest of advanced level chemists, and to provide a foundation for undergraduates starting courses in chemistry or biochemistry. The first three chapters lay the basis of the physical chemistry needed and lead into the discussion of the reactions from a mechanistic point of view. We have tried to keep the majority of the main text within the A level syllabuses, with some extensions in the margins and in the last chapter. It is not intended as, nor can it be, a comprehensive A level text. By concentrating on mechanism we hope to emphasize the common threads that hold the subject together.</p>
<p class="indent">We are most grateful to all those who have given us valuable criticism and advice, in particular Dr Peter Carpenter (Roedean School), Dr John Nixon (Haberdashers&#x2019; Aske&#x2019;s School, Elstree), and Dr David Smith (Winchester College). Dr Sydney Bailey (St Peter&#x2019;s College, Oxford) has been a constant source of help and inspiration to both of us since our own undergraduate days. Colleagues at ICI Pharmaceuticals and Agrochemicals have generously provided information on some of the commercially important compounds. Finally we would like to thank Mrs Brenda Armstrong (Fellows&#x2019; Secretary at Somerville College, Oxford) for her valiant efforts at deciphering not one but two sets of chemical handwriting.</p>
<p class="indent">We would like to dedicate this book to Janet and to John, and to our mutual goddaughters, Helen and Emma.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled"><span class="italic">Buckingham</span></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">G.M.H.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tablea"><span class="italic">Oxford</span></p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabler">J.M.P.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabled">September 1992</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><p class="tabled">&#160;</p></td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>