<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Heterocyclic chemistry is a vast discipline and at first sight impossible to do justice to in a text of this size. The aim of this book is to present only the essential features of the more important ring systems. Many reaction mechanisms are discussed in detail and several complete syntheses of heterocycles are presented. I hope that the reader will find this text both interesting and instructive, and that it will provide the platform for further study of this fascinating subject.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to thank my friends and colleagues at SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals for their helpful comments, including Angela Gadre, Clare Hayward, Chris Johnson, Helen Morgan and vacation students Peter Ainsworth and Francis Montgomery. I am similarly grateful to Prit Shah and colleagues of Glaxo Group Research. I am indebted to Roger Martin of SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals for helping me with the chemical structure drawing package. Professor Gurnos Jones made several helpful comments. Finally, I would like to thank the Series Editor, Steve Davies, for his advice and encouragement, as well as his acceptance of an industrial scientist to write an academic text.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-top:0.5em;">
<colgroup>
<col style="width:50%;"/>
<col style="width:50%;"/>
</colgroup>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Harlow</i><br/>June 1991</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">D.T.D.</td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>