<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Title page</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>

<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page iv, Preface</a>
<p class="fmmain">Preface</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Mechanisms of organic reactions are not a body of unchanging facts which need to be learned just once. As experimental methods become increasingly sophisticated, even well-known reactions are subjected to closer scrutiny, and our understanding of their mechanisms becomes more refined. Occasionally, new evidence requires that a widely accepted mechanism for a familiar reaction has to be replaced. Either a prediction required by the earlier mechanism is not substantiated, or a result is obtained which the earlier mechanism cannot accommodate. Consequently, the specialism of organic reaction mechanisms involves not just knowing the currently accepted mechanisms of the more important classes of organic reactions (and these are relatively few). It also requires an appreciation of the methodology involved in the investigation of mechanism, an ability to understand the evidence upon which currently accepted mechanisms are based, and a robust scepticism of mechanistic assertions unsupported by evidence.</p>
<p class="fmindent">It is not possible in a book the length of this to cover all types of organic reactions. Those of aromatic compounds, ones involving radicals, and rear-rangement reactions are covered in other Oxford Chemistry Primers, so are not included. It was also not possible to include all the evidence for even just the mechanisms considered. My intention has been to present sufficient of the evidence upon which a particular mechanism is based, with the hope that this Primer will whet the reader&#x2019;s appetite for deeper and more extensive study of what continues to be one of the most fascinating areas of chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">All chapters have been read by experts on particular topics (Per Ahlberg, Rory More O&#x2019;Ferrall, Mike Page, John Richard, and Alf Thibblin) and the whole text has been read by Bernard Golding and Steve Davies. I am very grateful to these friends and colleagues for their help and guidance. Without doubt, errors of fact and judgement remain for which I accept responsibility.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent"><i>Newcastle upon Tyne</i><span style="float:right">H. M.</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">February 1996</p>
 
</body>
</html>
