<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Exercises</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="sec_exer">
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_89">Page 89 Exercises</span></p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<h2 class="h2a">Exercises</h2>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">1.&#160;&#160;&#160;Explain the presence of <i>o-</i>, <i>m-</i> and <i>p-</i> nitroanilines in the reaction mixture formed when aniline is reacted with nitric and sulphuric acids.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">2.&#160;&#160;&#160;Predict the nitration products of (a) toluene, (b) benzonitrile (phenyl cyanide), (c) bromobenzene, (d) acetanilide (<i>N</i>-acetylaniline), (e) trifluorobenzene.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">3.&#160;&#160;&#160;Draw a reaction profile for the sulphonation of benzene, which illustrates the fact that the reaction can be reversed at elevated temperature and shows a small hydrogen-deuterium isotope effect (K<sub><i>H</i></sub> /K<sub><i>D</i></sub> &#x2248; 2).</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">4.&#160;&#160;&#160;Rank the following compounds in increasing rate of monobromination and suggest the major isomer in each case. (a) 4-nitrophenol, (b) 3-methylphenol, (c) 3-nitrophenol, and (d) 4-methylphenol.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">5.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why do phenols require moderately basic conditions for coupling reactions with diazonium salts?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">6.&#160;&#160;&#160;Account for the fact that aryldiazonium salts are more stable than their alkyl counterparts.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">7.&#160;&#160;&#160;Rank in term of reactivity towards nucleophiles 2,4,6-trinitro-, 2,4-dinitro, 3-nitro, 4-nitro-chlorobenzenes.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">8.&#160;&#160;&#160;Account for the fact that 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene when reacted with ethyl fluoride/boron trifluoride at -80 &#176;C yields a salt which when it is warmed to -15 &#176;C affords hydrogen fluoride, boron trifluoride and 2,4,6-trimethylethylbenzene.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh">9.&#160;&#160;&#160;Draw out the structure of nitrosobenzene, including electron pairs, and show why it directs <i>ortho</i> and <i>para</i> in electrophilic reactions. Will the rate of substitution be faster or slower than that of aniline?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">10.&#160;&#160;&#160;Place in order of acidity phenol, benzoic acid, and cyclohexanol. Which is most acidic 3-nitrophenol or 4-nitrophenol?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">11.&#160;&#160;&#160;Suggest why salicylic acid (2-hydroxybenzoic acid) is more acidic than its <i>meta</i> and <i>para</i> isomers, but less so than 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">12.&#160;&#160;&#160;Show why 4-methylchlorobenzene when reacted with sodium amide in liquid ammonia gives both 3- and 4-methylanilines.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">13.&#160;&#160;&#160;Account for the fact that when 2-aminobenzoic acid is diazotized and the product is heated in methanol carbon dioxide and nitrogen are lost and methoxybenzene (anisole) is formed.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">14.&#160;&#160;&#160;Discuss the fact that toluene when reacted with chlorine in sunlight affords benzyl chloride, whereas in the presence of iron (III) chloride <i>o-</i> and <i>p</i>-chlorotoluenes are formed. </p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_90">Page 90 Exercises</span></p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">15.&#160;&#160;&#160;Draw arrow mechanisms to show why 2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-chloropropane is hydrolysed to the corresponding alcohol much faster than 2-phenyl-2-chloropropane.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">16.&#160;&#160;&#160;Comment upon the fact that toluene on electrophilic substitution affords <i>o-</i> and <i>p</i>-substituted toluenes whereas <i>meta</i>- products arise from trichloromethylbenzene (benzotrichloride).</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">17.&#160;&#160;&#160;Predict the product(s) from the reaction of benzenediazonium chloride with (a) aniline, (b) <i>N</i>,<i>N</i>-dimethylaniline, (c) <i>N</i>,<i>N</i>-2,6-tetramethylaniline.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">18.&#160;&#160;&#160;Place in order of basicity aniline, acetanilide (<i>N</i>-acetylaniline), and cyclohexylamine.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">19.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why should 2,4,6-trinitroaniline be 40 000 times less basic than <i>N</i>,<i>N</i>-dimethyl-2,4,6-trinitroaniline, but aniline and <i>N</i>,<i>N</i>-dimethylaniline are almost equally basic?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">20.&#160;&#160;&#160;Draw mechanisms for the reaction of benzaldehyde with (a) HCN/KCN, (b) propanone/NaOEt, (c) HCHO/NaOH.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">21.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why should l -bromocyclohepta-2,4,6-triene (tropylium bromide) be freely soluble in water, whereas benzyl bromide is not?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">22.&#160;&#160;&#160;Explain why naphthalene is sulphonated at low temperature at C-l, whereas at higher temperatures 2-naphthalene sulphonic acid is produced.</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">23.&#160;&#160;&#160;9,10-Diphenylanthracene reacts with oxygen in ultraviolet light to give an adduct C<sub>26</sub>H<sub>18</sub>O<sub>2</sub>. What is its structure and why does it form?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">24.&#160;&#160;&#160;What is the structure of the compound formed by the reaction of phenanthrene and benzyne?</p>
<p class="noindent-hanging-bh2">25.&#160;&#160;&#160;Why is the reaction product the same when benzene is reacted with either chloropropane or propene in the presence of aluminium (III) chloride? </p>
</section>
</body>
</html>


