<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_v">Page_v, Preface</span></p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">The chemistry of benzene, its derivatives, and its analogues is a vital part of organic chemistry and a core subject in undergraduate programmes in chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacy. It is a vast subject area, and the aim of this book is to provide an introduction which deals with the fundamentals and provides the basis for deductive reasoning. In addition, it emphasizes and exemplifies the interrelationship of aromatic to aliphatic chemistry; thus, whenever appropriate, comparisons between the behaviour of aromatic and aliphatic compounds are highlighted and discussed. The concept of aromaticity itself is explained and its wider implications to heterocyclic chemistry and the reactivity of polyunsaturated small and large cyclic ring systems are introduced. All the major reactions of aromatic chemistry are interpreted, and consideration is given to the determination of orientation in aromatic substitution reactions. Modern synthetic methods such as those involving the uses of organometallic reagents are included and the importance of arenes and carbenes in aromatic chemistry is discussed. Concepts such as kinetic versus thermodynamic control of reactions, reagent approach control, and acidity and basicity are all featured. In short, the book summarizes most of aromatic chemistry and its content is based upon the author&#8217;s detailed lecture notes to first and second year students, compiled during thirty years of teaching and research in this area of science.</p>
<p class="fmindent">I would like to thank my colleague and friend Dr David Brown for many helpful comments and constructive criticisms concerning the contents and presentation of this book.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><span class="italic">Bath</span></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">M.S.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">November 1991</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>