<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Thermodynamics of Chemical Processes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_82" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page_82, Appendix 2: additional problems</a>
<h1 class="fmmain">Appendix 2: additional problems</h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">You should make use of data listed in Appendix 1 where needed.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="bm-list">1.<span class="space">&#160;</span>An ideal gas expands reversibly and isothermally from 20 bar to 1 bar. Calculate the values (per mole) of <i>q, w, &#x2206;U, &#x2206;H, &#x2206;S</i>, and <i>&#x2206;G</i>.</p>
<p class="bm-list">2.<span class="space">&#160;</span>The decomposition at constant volume of 1 mole of gaseous krypton difluoride, KrF<sub>2</sub>, at 25 &#x00B0;C evolves 59.4 kJ mol<sup>&#x2013;1</sup> of heat. The enthalpy of sublimation of solid KrF<sub>2</sub> is 41 kJ mol<sup>&#x2013;1</sup>. Calculate <m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline"><m:mrow><m:mi>&#x0394;</m:mi><m:msubsup><m:mi>H</m:mi><m:mrow><m:mtext>f</m:mtext><m:mo>,</m:mo><m:mn>298</m:mn></m:mrow><m:mo>&#x2218;</m:mo></m:msubsup></m:mrow></m:math> for solid KrF<sub>2</sub>.</p>
<p class="bm-list">3.<span class="space">&#160;</span>When solid biphenyl, (C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>5</sub>)<sub>2</sub> is burned at 25 &#x00B0;C in a bomb calorimeter in excess oxygen, it was completely converted to gaseous CO<sub>2</sub> and liquid water with the evolution of 6243 kJ mol<sup>&#x2013;1</sup> of heat. Use standard enthalpies of formation for the products to calculate <m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline"><m:mrow><m:mi>&#x0394;</m:mi><m:msubsup><m:mi>H</m:mi><m:mrow><m:mtext>f</m:mtext><m:mo>,</m:mo><m:mn>298</m:mn></m:mrow><m:mo>&#x2218;</m:mo></m:msubsup></m:mrow></m:math> for biphenyl.</p>
<p class="bm-list">4.<span class="space">&#160;</span>The standard enthalpy change for the reaction N<sub>2(g)</sub> &#x002B; 3H<sub>2(g)</sub> &#x2192; 2 NH<sub>3(g)</sub> is &#x2013;92.4 kJ mol(N<sub>2</sub>)<sup>&#x2013;1</sup> at 300 K. Estimate the enthalpy change for the reaction at 800 K. What assumptions do you make?</p>
<p class="bm-list">5.<span class="space">&#160;</span>Calculate the entropy change for 3 mol of hydrogen gas at 1 bar on heating from 0 to 500 &#x00B0;C given that the heat capacity varies with temperature according to : <i>c</i><sub>p</sub>(<i>T</i>) <i>=</i> 27.3 &#x002B; 3.8 &#x00D7; 10<sup>&#x2013;3</sup> T J K<sup>&#x2013;1</sup> mol<sup>&#x2013;1</sup>.</p>
<p class="bm-list">6.<span class="space">&#160;</span>An equimolar mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen is allowed to come to equilibrium over a catalyst which promotes their conversion to methanol, gaseous CH<sub>3</sub>OH. At an equilibrium pressure, <i>P</i>, the fraction of CO converted to methanol is <i>X</i>. Formulate an expression for <i>K</i><sub>p</sub> as a function of <i>P</i> and <i>X</i> and show that, for very low conversions, the conversion is proportional to the square of the pressure. Use the standard Gibbs free energies to calculate the value of <i>K<sub>p</sub></i> for this reaction.</p>
<p class="bm-list">7.<span class="space">&#160;</span>At high temperatures, ethane decomposes into ethene and hydrogen according to</p>
<p class="imgc"><m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><m:mrow><m:msub><m:mtext>C</m:mtext><m:mn>2</m:mn></m:msub><m:msub><m:mtext>H</m:mtext><m:mrow><m:mn>6</m:mn><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub><m:mo>&#x2192;</m:mo><m:msub><m:mtext>C</m:mtext><m:mn>2</m:mn></m:msub><m:msub><m:mtext>H</m:mtext><m:mrow><m:mn>4</m:mn><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub><m:mo>+</m:mo><m:msub><m:mtext>H</m:mtext><m:mrow><m:mn>2</m:mn><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub></m:mrow></m:math></p>
<p class="bm-list-no">Calculate the changes in enthalpy, entropy and Gibbs free energy for the reaction at 1200 K and 1 bar pressure. Hence calculate the equilibrium constant. Formulate an equation for <i>K</i><sub>p</sub> in terms of the degree of dissociation.</p>
<p class="bm-list">8.<span class="space">&#160;</span>Nitric oxide, NO, and carbon monoxide, CO, are air pollutants emitted by car engines. One possible reaction for ehminating them is</p>
<p class="imgc"><m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><m:mrow><m:mn>2</m:mn><m:msub><m:mrow><m:mtext>NO</m:mtext></m:mrow><m:mrow><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub><m:mo>+</m:mo><m:mn>2</m:mn><m:msub><m:mrow><m:mtext>CO</m:mtext></m:mrow><m:mrow><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub><m:mo>&#x2192;</m:mo><m:msub><m:mtext>N</m:mtext><m:mrow><m:mn>2</m:mn><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub><m:mo>+</m:mo><m:msub><m:mrow><m:mtext>CO</m:mtext></m:mrow><m:mrow><m:mn>2</m:mn><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mtext>g</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:msub></m:mrow></m:math></p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_83" class="page">Page_83, Appendix 2: additional problems</a></p>
<p class="bm-list-no">From the data in Appendix 1, estimate the equilibrium constant for the reaction at 298 K. In a series of measurements, the pressures of each component in the air were <i>p</i>(<i>N</i><sub>2</sub>)<i>=</i> 0.78 bar, <i>p</i>(CO<sub>2</sub>) <i>=</i> 4 &#x00D7; 10<sup>&#x2013;4</sup> bar, <i>p</i>(NO) = 5 &#x00D7; 10<sup>&#x2013;7</sup> bar, and <i>p</i>(CO) = 5 &#x00D7; 10<sup>&#x2013;5</sup> bar. In what direction would the reaction proceed under these conditions? Suggest why this may not be a practical method of removing NO from car emissions.</p>
<p class="bm-list">9.<span class="space">&#160;</span>At 2500 K and 1 bar pressure, carbon dioxide is 15% dissociated into CO and oxygen. Calculate the equilibrium constant in terms of partial pressures and the standard Gibbs free energy change at this temperature for the dissociation. What would be the effect of changing the pressure?</p>
<p class="bm-list1">10.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span>The melting point of sulphur is 119 &#x00B0;C at 1 bar at which the density of the solid is 2.05 g cm<sup>&#x2013;3</sup> and that of the liquid is 1.811 g cm<sup>&#x2013;3</sup>. The enthalpy of fusion is 55.2 J g<sup>&#x2013;1</sup>. Calculate the melting point at 10 bar.</p>
<p class="bm-list1">11.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span>The normal boiling point of water is 100 &#x00B0;C and it has a vapour pressure of 92.51 torr at 50 &#x00B0;C. Calculate the entropy and enthalpy of vaporization.</p>
<p class="bm-list1">12.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span>For uranium hexafluoride, the vapour pressures of the liquid and solid phases are given by:</p>
<p class="imgc"><m:math xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><m:mrow><m:mtable><m:mtr><m:mtd><m:mrow><m:mtext>solid</m:mtext><m:mo>:</m:mo><m:mi>ln</m:mi><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mi>p</m:mi><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mtext>t</m:mtext><m:mtext>o</m:mtext><m:mtext>r</m:mtext><m:mtext>r</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo><m:mo>=</m:mo><m:mn>24.518</m:mn><m:mo>&#x2212;</m:mo><m:mn>5895</m:mn><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mi>T</m:mi><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mi>K</m:mi><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:mtd></m:mtr><m:mtr><m:mtd><m:mrow><m:mtext>l</m:mtext><m:mtext>i</m:mtext><m:mtext>q</m:mtext><m:mtext>u</m:mtext><m:mtext>i</m:mtext><m:mtext>d</m:mtext><m:mo>:</m:mo><m:mtext>l</m:mtext><m:mtext>n</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mi>p</m:mi><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mtext>t</m:mtext><m:mtext>o</m:mtext><m:mtext>r</m:mtext><m:mtext>r</m:mtext><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo><m:mo>=</m:mo><m:mn>17.361</m:mn><m:mo>&#x2212;</m:mo><m:mn>3479</m:mn><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mo stretchy='false'>(</m:mo><m:mi>T</m:mi><m:mo>/</m:mo><m:mi>K</m:mi><m:mo stretchy='false'>)</m:mo></m:mrow></m:mtd></m:mtr></m:mtable></m:mrow></m:math></p>
<p class="indent">Calculate the enthalpies of evaporation, sublimation, and fusion.</p>
<p class="indent">Calculate the pressure and temperature of the triple point.</p>
<p class="indent">Can the liquid phase exist at 1 atmosphere pressure?</p>
<p class="bm-list">13.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span>A mixture of benzene and cyclohexane containing 16.5 mol% cyclohexane boils at 78.3 &#x00B0;C at 1 atm pressure producing an equilibrium vapour containing 20.2 mol% cyclohexane. At this temperature, <i>p&#x00B0;</i> for benzene is 96.0 kPa and for cyclohexane is 94.2 kPa. Calculate the activity coefficients in the liquid phase.</p>
<p class="bm-list-in">Given that the freezing point of pure benzene is 5.5 &#x00B0;C and its enthalpy of fusion is 10.51 kJ mol<sup>&#x2013;1</sup>, calculate the freezing point of the above mixture.</p>
</body>
</html>