<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Thermodynamics of Chemical Processes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_84" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 84, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="bmmain"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Students who may have studied little physical chemistry before may find the first book a useful introduction to the basic ideas. Books 2&#x2013;5 deal with thermodynamics in a way which extends the concepts and material covered in this primer. Thermodynamics is covered in virtually every undergraduate textbook on physical chemistry and some of those I find useful are listed in 7&#x2013;11 (although this is a very subjective list&#x0021;). 12 and 13 have an emphasis on biochemical thermodynamics. Finally, references 14&#x2013;17 are books containing worked examples and problems. The easiest way to get to grips with physical chemistry is to do as many problems as possible. Good luck&#x0021;</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="refa">1.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Foundations of physical chemistry</i>, C. P. Lawrence, A. Rodger and R. G. Compton, OUP Primer Series No. 40, Oxford University Press 1996.</p>
<p class="refa">2.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Basic chemical thermodynamics</i> 4th Edn, E. B. Smith, Oxford University Press 1990.</p>
<p class="refa">3.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>An introduction to the study of chemical thermodynamics</i>, 2nd Edn, D. H. Everett, Longman 1971.</p>
<p class="refa">4.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Chemical thermodynamics</i>, M. L. McGlashan, Academic Press 1979.</p>
<p class="refa">5.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Chemical thermodynamics : basic theory and methods</i>, I. M. Klotz and R. M. Rosenberg, John Wiley and Sons 1994.</p>
<p class="refa">6.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>The Elements of physical chemistry</i>, 2nd edn, P. W. Atkins, Oxford University Press 1996.</p>
<p class="refa">7.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry</i>, 5th edn, P. W. Atkins, Oxford University Press 1994.</p>
<p class="refa">8.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry</i>, R. A. Alberty and R. J. Sibley, John Wiley and Sons 1971.</p>
<p class="refa">9.<span class="space">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry</i>, 3rd edn, G. W. Castellan, Addison-Wesley 1983.</p>
<p class="ref">10.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>A</i> <i>textbook of physical chemistry</i>, A. W. Adamson, Academic Press 1979.</p>
<p class="ref">11.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry</i>, J. S. Winn, Harper Collins 1995.</p>
<p class="ref">12.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry with applications to biological systems</i>, 2nd edn, R. Chang, Collier Macmillan 1981.</p>
<p class="ref">13.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Physical chemistry with biological applications</i>, K. J. Laidler, Benjamin-Cummings 1978.</p>
<p class="ref">14.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Chemical thermodynamics</i>&#x2014;<i>revision and worked examples</i>, H. P. Stadler, Royal Society of Chemistry 1989.</p>
<p class="ref">15.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Advanced physical chemistry calculations</i> H. E. Avery and D. J. Shaw, Butterworths 1971.</p>
<p class="ref">16.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Calculations in advanced physical chemistry</i>, 3rd edn, P. J. F. Griffiths and J. D. R. Thomas, Edward Arnold 1983.</p>
<p class="ref">17.<span class="space-n">&#160;</span><i>Beginning calculations in physical chemistry</i>, B. R. Johnson and S. K. Scott, Oxford University Press, 1997.</p>
</body>
</html>