<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Thermodynamics of Chemical Processes</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">Thermodynamics is a subject that is fundamental to the whole of chemistry but one that, at least at the outset, is amongst the least popular with students. It can be treated on a number of levels. First, there is the ultra-rigorous and pedantic approach which insists on deriving each equation and achieving a complete understanding of the minutiae. While this may be laudable it is likely to deter many students, particularly those with little background in physics and mathematics.</p>
<p class="fm-in">On the other hand, thermodynamics can be treated almost completely in terms of hand-waving arguments with barely an equation in sight, usually in a perceived response to the desires and requirements of students. Again, I feel that this is a mistake.</p>
<p class="fm-in">In this primer, I hope that I tread the middle ground between these two extremes. My overall aim is to introduce the concepts and ideas of how we treat energy changes during chemical processes and reactions and how we can use these ideas to correlate and explain chemical reactivity. I have not tried to be totally rigorous but hope that after reading and working through the book, students will be able to perform straightforward calculations and predictions on the course of reactions and the phase behaviour of compounds. In some places, non-IUPAC symbols and names have been used in the search for simplicity but I hope any deviations will be so obvious that no problems will be caused. No mathematical knowledge beyond that typically given at &#x2018;A-level&#x2019; or equivalent is required. Some basic mathematical notes are provided for students without this level of background.</p>
<p class="fm-in">The book is based on a lecture course I have been delivering at the University of Bath now for some years. It has metamorphosed from earlier courses given by Peter Tiley and Tony Ashworth and I should acknowledge that base with gratitude. I am also grateful to Lee Clarke, one of my undergraduate tutorial students for his valuable comments and for trying the problems.</p>
<p class="fm-in">Above all, I hope that students and their teachers (at whatever level) will find the book useful.</p>
<p class="attribute">Gareth Price<br/><i>University of Bath, 1997</i>.</p>
</body>
</html>