<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Additional reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_87" class="page">Page 87, Additional reading</a></p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><a id="ch"></a><b>Additional reading</b></h1>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top: 3em;">The chemistry of carbonyl compounds is so central to organic chemistry that several of the Primers overlap the topic and treatments are found in all textbooks. At the present time students are spoilt for choice, but perhaps the relevant chapters of McMurry (there is an excellent brief introductory account as well as the full textbook version), Sykes, and Norman and Coxon will be found most useful. Kemp and Vellaccio is a model of clarity. For a programmed introduction (a step-by-step problem-solving approach, that is) Warren&#x2019;s book has stood the test of time. Many reactions of carbonyl compounds generate new chiral centres, so asymmetric synthesis is an important aspect of their chemistry: it is well covered by Procter. On points of biological relevance, see Abeles, Frey, and Jencks or Stryer.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="noindent">Abeles, R. H., Frey, P. A., and Jencks, W. P. (1992). <em>Biochemistry.</em> Jones and Bartlett, London.</p>
<p class="noindent">Kemp, D. S. and Vellaccio, F. (1980). <em>Organic chemistry.</em> Worth, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent">McMurry, J. (1994). <em>Fundamentals of organic chemistry,</em> (3rd edn). Brooks Cole, California. Especially Chapters 9&#x2013;11.</p>
<p class="noindent">McMurry, J. (1995). <em>Organic chemistry,</em> (4th edn). Brooks Cole, California. Especially Chapters 19&#x2013;23.</p>
<p class="noindent">Procter, G. (1996). <em>Asymmetric synthesis.</em> Oxford University Press, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindent">Norman, R. O. C. and Coxon, J. M. (1993). <em>Principles of organic synthesis</em> (3rd edn). Blackie, London.</p>
<p class="noindent">Stryer, L. (1996). <em>Biochemistry</em> (4th edn). W. H. Freeman, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent">Sykes, P. (1986). <em>A guidebook to mechanism in organic chemistry</em> (6th edn). Longman, London. See also Sykes, P. (1995). <em>A primer to mechanism in organic chemistry.</em> Longman, London. Especially <a href="Chapter07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a>.</p>
<p class="noindent">Warren S. (1974, but reprinted frequently and still in print 1997). <em>Chemistry of the carbonyl group.</em> Wiley, London.</p>
</body>
</html>