<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_v">Page v, Preface</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">An intimate understanding and instinctive feel for the chemistry of carbonyl compounds is absolutely essential for the modern organic chemist. The material set out here has been developed from a first-year lecture course which I have given for some years to students reading chemistry or biochemistry at Oxford, but here and there extends into what is conventionally deemed second-year territory. It owes more than my audiences will easily credit to the comment sheets handed in by them, which are sometimes as perceptive as they are barbed and irreverent. The lectures were of course not dreamt up by me out of the blue, but naturally follow the general direction of the path well-trodden by my forbears in the Dyson Perrins Laboratory. Of these, the late Sir Richard Norman, who lectured at Oxford when I was an undergraduate in the early sixties, and later with his great book (first edition 1968), probably shaped the way I think about general organic chemistry more than anyone else. One of the anonymous reviewers of the original proposal made a number of suggestions (cerium applications, SAMP, and Weinreb amides, for example), which at first struck me as a bit avant-garde. However, I warmed to them on reflection and adopted nearly all of them, so I must thank that reviewer. I am also grateful to my Balliol pupils Faisal Khan and Amber Haq for many useful comments. However the responsibility for the errors &#x2013; whether of commission or omission &#x2013; and the eccentricities of selection and arrangement, is all my own.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Oxford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">M. J. T. R.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">May, 1999</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>