<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 88, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Oxidation</h2>
<p class="fmnoindent">Haines, A. H. (1985). <i>Methods for the oxidation of organic compounds: alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, and arenes</i>, Academic Press, London.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Haines, A. H. (1988). <i>Methods for the oxidation of organic compounds: alcohols, alcohol derivatives, alkyl halides, nitroalkanes, allyl azides, carbonyl compounds, hydroxyarenes and aminoarenes</i>, Academic Press, London.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Trost, B. M. and Fleming, I. (ed.) (1991). <i>Comprehensive organic synthesis</i>, Pergamon, Oxford. Vol. 7.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">Reduction</h2>
<p class="fmnoindent">Freifelder, M. (1978). <i>Catalytic hydrogenation in organic synthesis procedures and commentary</i>, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Hudlicky, M. (1984). <i>Reductions in organic chemistry</i>, Ellis Horwood, Chichester.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Rylander, P. N. (1985). <i>Hydrogenation methods</i>, Academic Press, London. Bart&#x00F3;k, M. (1985). <i>Stereochemistry of heterogeneous metal catalysis</i>, Wiley, Chichester.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Trost, B. M. and Fleming, I. (ed.) (1991). <i>Comprehensive organic synthesis</i>, Pergamon, Oxford. Vol. 8.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Seyden-Penne, J. (1997). <i>Reductions by the alumino- and borohydrides in organic synthesis</i>, Wiley-VCH, New York.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h2 class="h2">General guides to oxidation and reduction</h2>
<p class="fmnoindent">Excellent chapters on the redox properties of organic compounds may be found in the following.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">House, H. O. (1972). <i>Modem synthetic reactions</i>, W. A. Benjamin, California.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">March, J. (1985). <i>Advanced organic chemistry</i>, Wiley, New York.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Carruthers, W. (1986). <i>Some modem methods of organic synthesis</i>, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Smith, M. B. (1994). <i>Organic synthesis</i>, McGraw-Hill, New York.</p>
<p class="fmnoindent">Burke, S. D. and Danheiser, R. L. (ed.) (1999). <i>Handbook of reagents for organic sythesis: oxidising and reducing agents</i>, Wiley, Chichester.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>