<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<p class="pagenumber"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_iv">Page_v, Preface</span></p>
<p class="fmnoindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Pick a synthesis of an important organic compound from the literature: the chances are high that the route will contain some type of oxidation or reduction reaction. Indeed, the theme of oxidation and reduction runs through the very core of organic synthesis and it has been my aim to provide a guidebook to this area. In fact the spectrum of redox reactions is so great that this short text is designed only to describe briefly some of the more interesting and useful ones. I have highlighted the area of asymmetric synthesis using enantiopure catalysts as I think that some of these redox reactions represent the cutting edge of organic chemistry. I have also attempted to illustrate the types of selectivity (chemo- and stereoselectivity for example) that are possible under oxidising and reducing conditions, as this knowledge is essential when planning a synthesis.</p>
<p class="fmindent">In each reaction that is encountered I have endeavoured to provide a guide to a likely mechanism so that the book is more than just a list of oxidising and reducing agents. In some (in fact most) cases the mechanism of a reaction has not been proven beyond doubt and here I have tried to present a logical and reasonable interpretation of the results.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Finally, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to Drs J. P. Clayden, M. S. Loft and A. T. Russell who each proof-read the entire manuscript.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">2000</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">T. J. D.</td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>