<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_iv">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Physics plays a key role in the studies of every chemist throughout university. A clear understanding of the basic concepts of physics is essential for an appreciation of the diversity of regularly encountered physicochemical phenomena, from X-ray diffraction to nuclear magnetic resonance.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This primer seeks to complement undergraduate courses in chemistry by covering those aspects of physics which are essential knowledge for practising chemists. The text begins with a discussion of classical and wave mechanics which allows quantum mechanics to be introduced at an early stage. Often quantum mechanics is left till the final stages of a physics course but we feel students should become acquainted with these concepts as early as possible because quantum mechanics underpins much of modern chemical theory.</p>
<p class="fmindent">The ideas presented in the early chapters are subsequently developed to deal with the traditional physics topics of kinetic theory, electrostatics and magnetism. These topics are covered with the undergraduate chemist in mind and focus on aspects most relevant to chemistry. For example, in the electrostatics chapter a study of molecular interactions is presented, an area seldom covered in basic physics texts, while the important technique of nuclear magnetic resonance is discussed in detail in the chapter on magnetism.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Optics is an often neglected area in undergraduate chemistry courses but a thorough grounding in the area is necessary for a proper understanding of the many laser based techniques used in modern physical chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">It is hoped that as well as being a text for a first year course in physics for chemists, this book will be a useful reference for students at all stages of their university careers.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We are indebted to Ben Bakowski who has spent much of his valuable time drawing and formatting the majority of the figures &#x2013; thank you! We also would like to thank Rob Peverall for critically reading the Primer and Hugh Barry for checking the solutions to the problems. Finally we thank Richard Compton for his patience and enthusiasm throughout the entire project.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>Oxford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">G. A. D. R.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">May, 2000</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">D.S.S</td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>