<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Computers in Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_88" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 88, Bibliography</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Bibliography</b></h1>

<p class="ref">R.P. Wayne. <i>Chemical instrumentation</i> (Oxford Chemistry Primers 24). Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1994 &#x2013; This primer gives an excellent introduction for chemists to analogue electronics and instrumentation in general.</p>
<p class="ref">P. Horowitz, and W. Hill. <i>The art of electronics</i> (2<sup>nd</sup> edn). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1989 &#x2013; A very valuable book on electronics for all levels.</p>
<p class="ref">W.H. Press, B.P. Flannery, S.A. Teukolsky, and W.T. Vetterling. <i>Numerical Recipes. The art of scientific computing.</i> Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996 &#x2013; The new (1996) edition of this book is available in C, Fortran 77, and Fortran 90 versions, whereas the first (1988) edition was produced for C, Fortran, Basic, and Pascal. No self-respecting scientific programmer should be without at least one copy on their shelf.</p>
<p class="ref">P.R. Bevington. <i>Data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences.</i> McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1969 &#x2013; A good text on numerical techniques and statistics.</p>
<p class="ref">G.H. Grant and W.G. Richards. <i>Computational chemistry </i>(Oxford Chemistry Primers 29). Oxford University Press, 1995.</p>
<p class="ref">And finally, if any programming in C is undertaken, you must have a copy of:</p>
<p class="ref">B.W. Kernighan and D.M. Ritchie. <i>The C programming language.</i> Prentice Hall, 1978 and 1988 &#x2013; The first edition describes &#x2018;K &#x0026; R&#x2019; C, whilst the second edition describes ANSI C. Both editions are very useful.</p>
</body>
</html>
