<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Computers in Chemistry</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="ch08">
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_87" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 87, Chapter 8 Chemistry and the Internet</a></p>
<h1 class="main">8<span class="space">&#160;</span>Chemistry and the Internet</h1>
<p class="banoindent">Chemistry has benefited greatly from the Internet and there are countless sources of chemical information available on-line. Consequently, it might be thought that any book on computers in chemistry would have to contain a comprehensive section on chemistry on the Internet. However, the evolving nature of the Internet creates a big problem: as soon as such a section is written, never mind published, it is out of date. So, I&#x2019;m afraid that this author has taken the approach that it is better to keep quiet rather than be wrong!</p>
<p class="baindent">A few hints though are in order. As has already been said, there is a vast amount of information available on the Internet on all aspects of chemistry. A search for the word &#x2018;chemistry&#x2019; on one of the World Wide Web search engines produced over 4 million web pages, and in all those pages is the information you are probably looking for. So, it is worthwhile getting familiar with the advanced search facilities of any source of information you use, it can reduce the number of dead-ends you follow and so increase the likelihood of finding what vou need.</p>
<p class="baindent">A further warning about the World Wide Web is also needed: <i>there is no review process for publication on the web.</i>This means that anybody can put any information they want on a web site and you have little idea as to whether it is based on good quality research or is some lunatic&#x2019;s pet theory.</p>
<p class="baindent">Chemistry is a subject that benefits greatly from the graphical aspects of the World Wide Web: molecules and so on can be displayed in three dimensions and animated in ways not possible with standard paper publications. Indeed, many paper journals now have &#x2018;Internet Editions&#x2019; just so that advantage can be taken of these graphical capabilities and more recently purely Internet journals have been appearing. However, the protocols and formats of the data needed to produce the advanced chemical graphics is evolving, and it is inevitable that a particular computer may not be able to display a particular graphic because it does not have the right software installed. This, unfortunately, is the price that it is necessary to pay for working in an evolving medium! The article containing the graphics should give you hints as to where to find the required viewing software, or it may be necessary to do a search for it.</p>
<p class="baindent">Finally, if the thought of searching through 4 million web pages is daunting, then a good place to start is a university web site. Virtually all chemistry departments will have their own web site, and that web site will probably contain links to other places &#x2013; after a bit of &#x2018;surfing&#x2019; you should be able to find the information you want. No doubt, if you look hard enough, you may even find mention of this primer somewhere!</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>