<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Conputers in Chemistry</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_v" class="page">Page v, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fm-no">A chemist&#x2019;s life would be very difficult without computers, and these days it would be difficult to find a chemist without at least one computer in their laboratory: computers have become an integral part of chemistry. This &#x2018;invasion&#x2019; is not constrained to the beige box on the desk. Virtually all modern instrumentation contains some form of computer, and indeed the operation of many instruments has become so complex that it is impossible without some form of computer control. So, it is important that a modern chemist has at least some knowledge of computers, and the deeper that knowledge is, the better use will be made of the tools available.</p>
<p class="fm-in">This Primer provides an overview of computers and their use in chemistry. It is not a programming manual, nor is it meant as a definitive guide to interfacing or document processing &#x2013; there is just not enough space here for that. What I do hope though is that it will help the reader to gain a better insight into the workings of a computer and so help them use the facilities available to them more effectively.</p>
<p class="fm-in">Thanks must go to Prof. Richard Wayne, who gave me the opportunity to pursue my love of electronics and computers whilst still calling myself a chemist. But, primarily, I must thank my wife, May, for suffering most during the production of this book, and for producing our beautiful daughter, Pippa.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabled">Oxford<br/>1999</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="tabler">P.B.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>