<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en"><head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Stereoselectivity in Organic Synthesis</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_vi" class="page">Page vi, Preface</a>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="Preface">
<h1 class="chaptitle"><b>Preface</b></h1>

<p class="noindentswap" style="margin-top:-1.3em;">Organic chemistry is a vast and important subject. Within organic chemistry, organic synthesis is a discipline which occupies a place of special importance. At the most basic level it allows for the preparation of compounds and materials which have become essential for the way we live. At the other extreme, it can provide the opportunity to invent, and to synthesize molecules which are new to the world, and which could possess valuable properties.</p>
<p class="indentswap">Organic synthesis can also make demands at the highest scientific level, and at the extreme edge of the subject, advances require and inspire creativity equal to that of any other discipline. Planning and executing organic synthesis is both an art and a science which calls upon many human abilities, from the abstract design and planning stages, to the practical skills required to make the plan succeed. The three-dimensional structures of organic molecules are often crucial in determining their properties, and their complexity and beauty serve to inspire organic chemists from one generation to another.</p>
<p class="indentswap">Such three dimensional structures require efficient methods for their stereoselective synthesis. The methods of stereoselective organic synthesis are important at all stages of this type of synthetic endeavour. Planning has to take account of what is possible, or what might be possible to achieve. Methods for stereoselective synthesis should not therefore be seen in isolation, as an end in themselves. In this area, application is all.</p>
<p class="indentswap">The best stereoselective synthetic methodology should allow for very high levels of three- dimensional control, but at the same time be easy and reliable in the laboratory. In this introduction I have tried to include some of the best examples of such methodology, and to use simple (often simplistic!) theory to account for the observed stereochemical aspects in these reactions.</p>
<p class="indentswap">Any good organic textbook would complement this Primer, and a set of basic molecular models will be invaluable. In addition, I particularly recommend A. J. Kirby, Stereoelectronic Effects Oxford Chemistry Primer no. 36, Oxford, 1996, as an excellent introduction to this aspect of organic chemistry, so important in understanding stereoselective organic synthetic methods.</p>
<p class="indentswap">I agree with Professor Kirby that &#x2018;learning organic chemistry is hard work&#x2019;. But once the threads which run through organic chemistry are understood, it becomes extremely rewarding and intellectually fulfilling. Nowhere more than in the area of stereoselective synthesis, where the application of existing methods to taxing target structures, often provided by Nature, and the invention of new synthetic methods, provide a never ending series of challenges to the creativity of organic chemists. If this Primer helps you in setting out on the adventure that is organic synthesis, then I will be happy.</p>
<table style="margin-top:1em;width:100%">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:left;"><i>Salford</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">G. P. </td>
</tr>
</table>
<p class="noindent">1998.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
