<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Polymers</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="Ch07">
<a id="page_146" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 146, Conclusions and further reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>7&#160;&#160;&#160;Conclusions and further reading</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">The aim of this Primer is to give a flavour of the breadth of chemistry covered by polymeric materials and to explore the sophistication behind these deceptively simple-seeming structures. In addition, polymers provide a convenient opportunity to study industrial aspects of chemical science. In fact, considerations of economics, availability of feedstocks, use of specialized catalytic reactions and similar matters are found throughout the chemical industry, but polymers provide particularly instructive examples. It is an appropriate time to review polymers since there are many new aspects and applications in prospect.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">This is a very wide subject to cover in a single short Primer and readers are encouraged to investigate more specialized bibliography for areas of interest.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">There are numerous reference books on all aspects of polymer science and technology, including series of volumes extensively filled with data, and over the years many excellent textbooks have been produced on polymers. The volume by Saunders &#x201C;Organic Polymer Chemistry&#x201D; is particularly recommended and a number of tables in this Primer have been adapted from this work.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">The following list is intended simply to be illustrative.</p>
<h2 class="h2"><b>Bibliography</b></h2>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Introductory texts</b></h3>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Nicholson, J. W. (1991). <i>The Chemistry of Polymers</i>. Royal Society of Chemistry, Cambridge.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Campbell, I. M. (1994). <i>Introductory Synthetic Polymers</i>. Oxford Science Publications, Oxford.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Hall, C. (1989). <i>Polymer Materials</i> (2nd edn). Macmillan, London.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Fried, J. R. (1995). <i>Polymer Science and Technology</i>. Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-top:1.7em;"><b>Intermediate texts</b></h3>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Saunders, K. J. (1994). <i>Organic Polymer Chemistry</i> (2nd edn). Chapman and Hall, London.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Allcock, H. W. and Lampe, F. W. (1990). <i>Contemporary Polymer Chemistry</i> Prentice Hall, New Jersey, USA.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;"><a id="page_147" class="page">Page 147, Conclusions and further reading</a>Munk, P. (1989). <i>An Introduction to Macromolecular Science</i>. John Wiley &amp; Sons, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Elias, H.-G. (1993). <i>An Introduction to Plastics</i>. Verlagchemie (VCH), Weinheim.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Young, R. J. and Lovell, P. A. (1991). <i>Introduction to Polymers</i>. (2nd edn). Chapman and Hall, London.</p>
<h3 class="h3" style="margin-top:1.8em;"><b>Specialized texts</b></h3>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Brown, R. P. and Read, B. E. (ed.) (1984). <i>Measurement Techniques for Polymeric Solids</i>. Elsevier, London.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Albertsson, A.-C. and Huang, S. J. (ed.) (1995). <i>Degradable Polymers, Recycling and Plastics Waste Management</i>. Marcel Dekker, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Clough, R. L., Billingham, N. C. and Gillen, K. T. (ed.) (1996). <i>Polymer Durability, Degradation, Stabilisation and Lifetime Prediction</i>. American Chemical Society, Advances in Chemistry Series no. 249.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">Ed. H. Singh Nalwa (1998) &#x2018;Handbook of Conductive Organic Molecules and Polymers&#x2019; Volumes 1&#x2013;4, John Wiley.</p>
<h2 class="h2" style="margin-top:1.8em;"><b>Acknowledgements</b></h2>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">The authors thank all at Coventry University for their support, particularly Jenny McGlone for her help with a large part of the manuscript and Clive Dixon and the Teaching Resources Department for most of the figures.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">D. J. W. also wishes to thank A. Jenkins and N. Billingham for exciting his original interest in the subject, all at Raychem Swindon (1981&#x2013;1986) for rekindling it, W. MacDonald, D. M. Smith, D. Pullen, L. S. A. Smith, C. E. Hall, A. Chyla, M. Morris, D. R. Rosseinsky, R. Lines, J. E. McIntyre, and numerous others for continuing to keep the interest fresh and invigorated at various times.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">J. P. L. wishes to thank D. C. Pepper and the late Eric Catterall for introducing him to the subject and to the many others in particular Dave Forrest, Dave Kershaw, Kate Fiddy, Dirk Kirschneck and Liz Brookfield who provided the stimulus for a better understanding of the discipline.</p>
<p class="indent3-ka1">Last, but not least, both authors wish to thank their families for their continued support during the preparation of this <i>Primer</i>.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:1em;">Coventry 1999</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>