<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Further reading</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="page" style="width:70%;"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_90">Page 90, Further reading</span></p>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h1 class="main"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<p class="noindent">Any book such as this can only provide a brief insight into an area. Below is a list of sources which will help the reader with any further research.</p>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Textbooks</b></h3>
<p class="noindent">Most contemporary textbooks on inorganic chemistry contain a chapter on aspects of bioinorganic chemistry. More comprehensive texts are listed below.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; J.J.R. Fra&#x00FA;sto da Silva and R.J.P. Williams, <i>The Biological Chemistry of the Elements</i>, Oxford University Press, 1991.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; R.W. Hay, <i>Bioinorganic Chemistry</i>, Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1984.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; M.N. Hughes and R.K. Poole, <i>Metals and Micro-organisms</i>, Chapman &#x0026; Hall, London, 1989.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; K. Burger (ed.), <i>Biocoordination Chemistry</i> &#x2014;<i>Coordination Equilibria in Biologically Active Systems</i>, Ellis Horwood, Chichester, 1990.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; S.J. Lippard and J.M. Berg, <i>Principles of Bioinorganic Chemistry</i>, University Science Books, Mill Valley, California, 1994.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; W. Kaim and B. Schwederski, <i>Bioinorganic Chemistry: Inorganic Elements in the Chemistry of Life</i>, John Wiley &#x0026; Sons, Chichester, 1994.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; I. Bertini, H.B. Gray, S.J. Lippard and J.S. Valentine, <i>Bioinorganic Chemistry</i>, University Science Books, Mill Valley, California, 1994.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">There are also many monographs, such as the series <i>Metal Ions in Biology</i>, ed. T.G. Spiro, Wiley, New York, which are dedicated to the bioinorganic chemistry of individual metals or subject areas.</p>
</section>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h3 class="h3"><b>Review articles</b></h3>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">In addition to textbooks, there is also available an abundant review literature concerning the topics discussed in this book. These take the reader deeper into the subject area. Dedicated series include the two below.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; <i>Metal Ions in Biological Systems</i>, ed. H. Sigel, Dekker, New York.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; <i>Advances in Inorganic Biochemistry</i>, ed. G.L. Eichhorn and L.G. Marzilli, Elsevier, New York.</p>
<p class="noindent"><a id="page_91" class="page">Page 91, Further reading</a>Individual review articles can be found sometimes in special editions of series such as those given below.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; <i>Progress in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, ed. K. D. Karlin, Wiley.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; <i>Advances in Inorganic Chemistry</i>, ed. A. G. Sykes, Academic Press.</p>
<p class="indent" style="margin-top:0.5em;">&#x2014; <i>Structure and Bonding</i>, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.</p>
<p class="noindent" style="margin-top:0.8em;">Journals such as <i>Angewandte Chemie</i>, the <i>Journal of Chemical Education, Coordination Chemistry Reviews, Accounts of Chemical Research, Chemical Reviews</i> and <i>Chemical Society Reviews</i> are also excellent sources of review articles and the <i>Journal of Chemical Education</i> published a collection of reviews entitled &#x2018;Bioinorganic Chemistry - State of the Art&#x2019; in 1985 (<b>62</b>, 916- 1001). There is also an extremely readable section entitled &#x2018;Biological and Medicinal Aspects&#x2019; (of coordination chemistry) in <b>6</b> of <i>Comprehensive Coordination Chemistry</i>, ed. G. Wilkinson, R. D. Gillard and J. A. McCleverty, Pergamon Press, 1987.</p>
<p class="indent">As well as the chemistry-based literature, there is also the biology-based literature Excellent short, state-of-the-art, reviews can be found regularly in <i>Trends in Biological Sciences</i>. and more specialist subject area reviews are to be found in sources such as <i>Advances in Protein Chemistry, Annual Reports of Biochemistry</i>, and <i>Annual Reviews of Biophysics and Biophysical Structure.</i></p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>