<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Essentials of lnorganic Chemistry 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<a id="page_92" class="page" style="width:70%;">Page 92, Bibliography</a>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<h1 class="main"><b>Bibliography</b></h1>
<h3 class="h3"><b>General textbooks</b></h3>
<p class="indent">D.F. Shriver, P.W. Atkins, and C.H. Langford, <i>Inorganic chemistry</i>, 2nd edn. Oxford University Press (1994).</p>
<p class="indent">F.A. Cotton and G. Wilkinson, <i>Advanced inorganic chemistry</i>, 5th edn. John Wiley and Sons (1988).</p>
<p class="indent">A. Earnshaw and N.N. Greenwood, <i>Chemistry of the elements.</i> Pergamon Press. (1984).</p>
<p class="indent">Jack Barrett, <i>Understanding inorganic chemistry.</i> Ellis Horwood (1991). William L. Jolly, <i>Modern inorganic chemistry</i>, 2nd edn. McGraw-Hill (1991).</p>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Thermodynamic aspects</b></h3>
<p class="indent">W.E. Dasent, <i>Inorganic energetics.</i> Cambridge University Press (1982).</p>
<p class="indent">D.A. Johnson, <i>Some thermodynamic aspects of inorganic chemistry.</i> Cambridge University Press (1982).</p>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Bonding</b></h3>
<p class="indent">M.J. Winter, <i>Chemical bonding</i>, Oxford Chemistry Primer No. 15. Oxford (1994).</p>
<p class="indent">P.A. Cox, <i>The electronic structure and chemistry of solids.</i> Oxford University Press (1987).</p>
<p class="indent">R. DeKock and H.B. Gray, <i>Chemical structure and bonding</i>, Benjamin/ Cummings, Menlo Park (1980).</p>
<p class="indent">P.W. Atkins, <i>Quanta.</i> Oxford University Press (1991).</p>
<h3 class="h3"><b>Periodic table</b></h3>
<p class="indent">R.J. Puddephatt and P.K. Monaghan, <i>The periodic table of the elements.</i> Oxford University Press (1986).</p>
</body>
</html>