<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Essentials of lnorganic Chemistry 1</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<p class="noindent">&#160;</p>
<a id="page_iv" class="page">Page_iv, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">A university lecturer always faces the problem of choosing a level which is appropriate for that specific course. This problem is particularly acute for first year undergraduates because of variations in the contents of pre-university courses. The aim of this book is to assist the transition between school and university by providing a concise account of the concepts in inorganic chemistry which either should have been covered in a pre-university course or will be introduced in the first year. The topics have been arranged alphabetically for easy access although the specific entries are hopefully sufficiently detailed to give more than a dictionary definition. The page limitations imposed by the Oxford Chemistry Primer series have required me to choose those topics which I thought essential for freshman undergraduates and I hope that my choice is representative. There are plans to adopt the same format for a companion volume which will deal with more advanced topics suitable for second and third year students&#x2014;<i>Non-essential concepts in inorganic chemistry</i> perhaps?</p>
<p class="fmindent">I should like to thank the many people who have helped me complete this book either by contributing to the production or reading parts of the manuscript. In particular Simon Cotton and John Evans who read the draft version of the manuscript and made many helpful suggestions, David Goodgame who read the proofs and Jeff Leigh who carefully read the section dealing with nomenclature. My son Adam also provided a consumers&#x2019; view of the material. On the production side Neil Hyatt started the process of producing the camera-ready copy, but the tremendous burden of coming to grips with the formatting of the document and ensuring that the book did not exceed 92 pages fell on Jack Barrett. I cannot thank him enough for the dedication and patience he showed completing the task. The responsibility for the inaccuracies that remain in the book is regretfully mine alone.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="attribute"><i>London</i><br/>
April 1994</p></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;" class="width50"><p class="fmattribute">D.M.P.M.</p></td>
</tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>