<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a id="page_iii" class="page">Page iii, Preface</a>
<h1 class="fmmain"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">This book is written primarily for those studying first-year University courses in Chemistry and for those preparing to do so.</p>
<p class="fmindent">It is designed to reflect significant recent advances in the use of spectroscopic and diffraction methods, not only for obtaining an analysis of elements and groups present in a molecule but also for establishing the arrangement of the constituent atoms. These developments have had a profound effect by increasing scientific knowledge in the fields of chemistry and molecular biology, reflected in the elucidation of the structure and function of a wide range of compounds including drugs, proteins and enzymes, and nucleic acids.</p>
<p class="fmindent">It is important that such work and its appreciation should find its place in the curriculum &#x2014; as a means of educating chemistry students about essential principles and wide-ranging applications and to show how problem-solving skills are developed and applied in industrial and research environments. We also hope to convey the enjoyment and satisfaction of successful spectrum analysis.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We have included mass spectrometry and X-ray diffraction, along with traditional spectroscopic techniques; the former is the method <i>par excellence</i> for molecular mass and formulae determination and the latter provides details of molecular structure, providing information complementary to i.r., n.m.r. and u.v.-visible spectroscopy. We introduce the essential physical principles of each method, many examples of spectral analysis, and some problems; further reading and practice are strongly encouraged.</p>
<p class="fmindent">SI units have been adopted, with IUPAC nomenclature; trivial names accompany the recommended names in parentheses. Accurate mass data are taken from <i>Mass and Abundance Tables for Use in Mass Spectrometry</i> by J. H. Beynon and A. E. Williams, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1963, and fragmentation patterns from <i>Compilation of Mass Spectral Data</i> by A. Cornu and R. Massot, Heyden, London, 1966.</p>
<p class="fmindent">We thank especially the following for assistance in recording spectra: Kin Mya Mya, Anthony Crawshaw, Zygmunt Derewenda, Guy Dodson, Chris Hall, Reuben Girling, Rod Hubbard, Robert Liddington, and Ted Parton. We acknowledge permission to use <a href="chapter6.xhtml#fig_6.19">Fig. 6.19</a> (The Royal Society) and <a href="chapter5.xhtml#fig_5.29">Fig. 5.29</a> (one of our students). We are grateful for particularly relevant advice from schoolteachers including David Bevan, Michael Cane, Peter Gradwell, Geoff Liptrot, Bill Pickering, and George Walker. Finally, our special thanks go to David Waddington and Barry Thomas for enthusiasm and encouragement, and to Sue Street and Adrian Whitwood for assistance in producing the manuscript.</p>
<table class="width100">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><i>York</i></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;width:90%;text-align:right;">S. B. D. and B. C. G.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">1999</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>