<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_vi" style="width:100%;">Page vi, Preface</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Preface</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">One of the challenges faced by any lecturer delivering a course on molecular symmetry is to select and present material which will provide an adequate mathematical grounding in this area, whilst at the same time retaining strong links with &#x201C;real&#x201D; chemistry. Most students are familiar with the basic concepts of symmetry, and the initial aim of this Primer is to provide a suitable framework for describing the symmetry properties of molecules both pictorially, and by the use of matrices. For some students, this may be their first encounter with matrices, and the approach adopted here is to regard matrices simply as descriptive tools rather than to explore their intrinsic properties in any detail. These initial chapters are then followed by a description of the role played by symmetry in vibrational spectroscopy and in chemical bonding. Examples abound in both these areas of chemistry, and it has been necessary to be somewhat arbitrary in the choice of molecules studied. However, the examples included here cover many of the basic molecular structures which would be encountered in a typical uni­versity chemistry course.</p>
<p class="fmindent">This Primer would not have been written without the initial encouragement of John Evans, and I would like to give particular thanks to him for his constructive comments and keen eye for detail throughout the production of the draft manuscript. In the final stages of production, numerous Southampton students have also had the opportunity to comment on the material in this Primer, and to them also, I would like to express my appreciation. However, my main thanks must go to my family for their ability simultaneously both to support and cajole me into finally completing this short book.</p>
<table class="width100" style="margin-left:0em;">
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;"><span class="italic"><i>Southampton</i></span></td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;text-align:right;">J.S.O.</td></tr>
<tr>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">February 2001</td>
<td style="vertical-align:top;">&#160;</td></tr>
</table>
</body>
</html>