<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<a class="page" id="page_v" style="width:100%;">Page v, Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Series Editor&#x2019;s Foreword</b></h1>
<p class="fmnoindent">Oxford Chemistry Primers are designed to give a concise introduction to all chemistry students by providing the material that would usually form an 8&#x2013;10 lecture course. As well as providing up-to-date information, this series expresses the explanations and rationales that form the framework of the current understanding of inorganic chemistry.</p>
<p class="fmindent">Symmetry is fundamental in science, architecture and art. Steve Ogden here provides an introductory course into symmetry and the chemical applications of group theory. This is an essential skill for tackling many bonding and spectroscopy problems. Here he concentrates on molecular vibrations and chemical bonding. We benefit from Steve&#x2019;s long experience both in teaching this subject and also in his own careful research identifying molecules formed under high temperature conditions using vibrational spectroscopy. Symmetry is a core aspect of modern undergraduate chemistry and this book provides an appropriate basis for under­standing the elegance and simplifications attainable by its application.</p>
<p class="attribute">John Evans</p>
<p class="attribute1"><i>Department of Chemistry University of Southampton</i></p>
</body>
</html>