<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<title>Organic synthesis</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" id="furtherreading">
<a id="page_91" class="page">Page 91, Further reading</a>
<h1 class="main"><b>Further reading</b></h1>
<p class="noindente" style="margin-top:-3em;">Organonitrogen chemistry is an integral part of all mainstream organic textbooks. It also features strongly in books on synthesis, mechanism, reactivity, natural products, and more specific classes of compounds. Indeed, several aspects of organonitrogen chemistry from this book also feature in other OUP primers. However, here are six other books that you may find particularly interesting and helpful:</p>
<p class="noindentet"><b>General</b> (easy). J. McMurry (1992). <i>Organic Chemistry</i> (3rd ed.), Brooks/Cole, California. A very readable general organic textbook at a modest level&#x2014;briefly covers almost all of the major topics in undergraduate chemistry.</p>
<p class="noindente"><b>General</b> (harder). J. March (1992). <i>Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structures</i> (4th ed.), Wiley, New York. More advanced general textbook&#x2014;very good coverage of mainstream organic chemistry, with valuable literature references.</p>
<p class="noindente"><b>Synthesis.</b> R. K. Mackie, D. M. Smith, and R. A. Aitken (1990). <i>Guidebook to Organic Synthesis</i> (2nd ed.), Longman, Harlow. There are dozens of books on synthesis&#x2014;the role of nitrogen is well covered and easily located in this book.</p>
<p class="noindente"><b>Mechanism.</b> P. Sykes (1986). <i>A Guidebook to Mechanism in Organic Chemistry</i> (6th ed.), Longman, Harlow. A classic, with lots of mechanisms involving nitrogen compounds.</p>
<p class="noindente"><b>Peptides.</b> P. D. Bailey (1990/92). <i>An Introduction to Peptide Chemistry</i>, Wiley, Chichester. An overview of the topic, allowing you to see how the principles of organonitrogen chemistry apply to this important class of compounds. Many other excellent books on natural products are available, which give a wider perspective on the importance of nitrogen in biological systems.</p>
<p class="noindente"><b>Comprehensive.</b> B. R. Brown (1994). <i>The Organic Chemistry of Aliphatic Nitrogen Compounds</i>, OUP, Oxford. A very thorough book of 767 pages, and this excludes aromatic nitrogen compounds.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>